Cardio Krill Oil Lowers Bad Cholesterol | krill-oil.wellwise.org
Home
Wellwise Home
Health Blogs
Health Conditions
Supplements
Krill Oil
Videos
About Us
Krill Home
What is Krill
Sustainability
Krill Management
Krill Monitoring
Krill Global Warming
What is Krill Used For
Krill Marine Parks
Krill Oil
What is in Krill Oil
Omega 3 Phospholipids
Phospholipids in food
Krill Oil Astaxanthin
Krill Oil Choline
Krill Oil Benefits
Why Take Krill Oil
Krill Oil Brain
ADHD & ADD
Dementia
Depression
Alzheimer's
Cardio & Cholesterol
Diabetes
Eye Health
Skin Health
Arthritis
Bowel Inflammation
PMS and Mood
Krill Oil for Kids
Krill Oil for Dogs
Krill Oil Dosage
Krill Oil Side Effects
Krill Oil Dangers
Krill Oil and PCBs
Krill Oil vs Fish Oil
Vs Cod liver oil
Krill Oil vs Cod Liver Oil 2: PCBs
Krill Oil vs Cod Liver Oil 3: Freshness
Krill Oil vs Cod Liver Oil 4: Price
Krill Oil vs Cod Liver Oil 5: Convenience
Compare Krill Oil and Fish Oil
Is Krill Oil Better than Fish Oil
Krill Oil Reviews
Brand Reviews
Life's DHA Algae Oil
Onemia
Nature's Bounty Krill Oil
What To Look For
Best Krill Oil
ConsumerLab Reviews
Liquid Krill Oil
Organic Krill Oil
Buy Krill Oil
Krill Oil Suppliers
Blog
Cardio Krill Oil Lowers Bad Cholesterol
Share Tweet
Sign up here for
our Newsletter: *
Krill oil has been demonstrated to be more effective than fish oil in reducing cholesterol, among other benefits.
Triglycerides are the chemical form of fat in our food and our bodies. When the calories we ingest are not used right away, they are stored in the fat cells of our bodies. High levels of these, particularly cholesterol, in the blood are a significant indicator of susceptibility to heart disease, stroke and atherosclerosis. Thus, reducing high cholesterol has become a multi-billion dollar industry in the world of pharmaceuticals.
Researchers at McGill University in Canada wanted to find out how krill oil would affect these levels. They gave 120 patients varying doses of krill oil (Neptune Krill Oil brand) for 90 days, and found that dosages from 1-3 grams a day were significantly more effective than a placebo or fish oil at reducing these elevated fats (glucose, triglycerides, and LDL).
Here’s part of their statement: “The results of the present study demonstrate within high levels of confidence that krill oil is effective for the management of hyperlipidemia by significantly reducing total cholesterol, LDL, and triglycerides, and increasing HDL levels. At lower and equal doses, krill oil was significantly more effective than fish oil for the reduction of glucose, triglycerides, and LDL levels.”
The combination of phospholipids and omega-3s in krill oil makes it particularly effective, apparently, in dealing with cardio health. Charles Spielholz, PhD, has an in-depth explanation of the healthy properties of phospholipids and omega-3s elsewhere on WellWise.
Read more about krill oil health benefits here.
Disclaimer: The information provided in this krill oil forum is a public service of WellWise.org, and should not in any way substitute for the advice of a qualified healthcare professional and is not intended to constitute personal medical advice.
Comments:
#1 cardio krill oil benefit
Submitted by Anonymous on Thu, 2010-09-23 20:17.
Has anyone cardio krill oil results from the doctor? Are your cholesterol levels better, and how much was your difference in HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol and heart triglycerides? My cardio health is not good because of my cholesterol ratio. The good cholesterol is to low, and my bad cholesterol is to high. My cardiologist said she has heard about the cardio benefits of krilloil, but had not looked into it. She thinks it is the same as fish oil, but I read that phospholipids are better cardio wise for krill oil vs fish oil. Is anyone willing to share blood lipid results after using cardio krill oil or fish oil? Jenny
#2 benefits of krill oil or fish oil
Submitted by Anonymous on Wed, 2010-09-29 14:51.
What is better: the benefits of krill oil or fish oil? I've been taking fish oil now for years, because I know fish oil is best for me, but I am hearing that the krill oil benefits are even better. Are there any krill oil reviews that explain why is krill oil better than fish oil.
#3 benefits of krill oil or fish oil
Submitted by Liz1942 on Thu, 2010-09-30 14:52.
There is a lot of fish oil research, and nobody will say anything bad about that. There are a few krill oil reviews that compare krill oil & fish oil. The biggest difference was observed in the cardio study about krill oil vs fish oil. The cholesterol benefits of krill oil vs fish oil when compared were:
+ Cardio LDL (bad cholesterol) FISH oil cholesterol: 5% better
+ Cardio LDL (bad cholesterol) KRILL oil cholesterol: 55% better
Conclusion: krill oil is better than fish oil for cardio LDL cholesterol health.
+ Cardio HDL (good cholesterol) FISH oil cholesterol: 4% better
+ Cardio HDL (good cholesterol) KRILL oil cholesterol: 39% better
Conclusion: krill oil is better than fish oil for cardio HDL cholesterol health
#4 Perhaps ...
Submitted by James Townsend on Mon, 2010-10-25 10:46.
One krill oil study focused on reduction of cholesterol. Many researchers now believe that cholesterol is not really the cause of heart disease, but just an indicator of risk of heart disease. According to the American Heart Association high blood cholesterol doesn’t automatically lead to high blood pressure, but many of the same lifestyle habits that may increase blood cholesterol levels also may cause elevated blood pressure, such as a diet high in saturated fat. As we've said elsewhere on this site, the Western diet is way too high in saturated fats and omega-6s. Among the many krill oil benefits: they dramatically increase the omega-3s in our system, bringing them more into balance. Finally, NKO is a brand of krill oil (Neptune Krill Oil), but there are other brands from other krill oil suppliers. You can find more about the various brands and compare their contents here.
#23 Cardio Krill Oil Cholesterol
Submitted by Anonymous on Wed, 2010-10-06 05:18.
I found this interesting krill oil review by Liz on the cardio krill oil forum about "what is krilloil?". The question was what's better for cardio health: krill oil or fish oil? She answered: There is a lot of fish oil research, and nobody will say anything bad about that. There are a few krill oilreviews that compare krill oil & fish oil. The biggest difference was observed in the cardio study about krill oil vs fish oil. The cholesterol benefits of krill oil vs fish oil when compared were: + Cardio LDL (bad cholesterol) FISH oil cholesterol: 5% better + Cardio LDL (bad cholesterol) KRILLoil cholesterol: 55% better Conclusion: krill oil is better than fish oil for cardio LDL cholesterol health. + Cardio HDL (good cholesterol) FISH oil cholesterol: 4% better + Cardio HDL (good cholesterol) KRILL oil cholesterol: 39% better Conclusion: krill oil is better than fish oil for cardio HDL cholesterol health.
#24 Thanks
Submitted by James Townsend on Tue, 2010-10-12 11:21.
You can find lots more on this site about krill oil cardio effects (http://www.wellwise.org/krill-oil/cardio-health), as well as krill oil-fish oil reviews (http://www.wellwise.org/krill-oil/krill-oil-vs-fish-oil-what-is-the-difference). Enjoy! and thanks for your contributions.
You can read more comments here and add your own.
Copyright © 2013 WellWise.org
A trusted source for science-based information and commentary about dietary supplements and nutrition.
Privacy Policy