HIV 101 — The HIMM Project
Home HIMM Events HIV 101 Healthy Sex #Tested PrEP & PEP Living w/ HIV Resources About HIMM Get Involved Contact Us
HomeHIMM EventsHIV 101Healthy Sex#TestedPrEP & PEPLiving w/ HIVResourcesAbout HIMMGet InvolvedContact Us
[+] or [-], we all have a roll to play
Scroll
HIV 101
What is HIV?
HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. Unlike some other viruses, the human body cannot get rid of HIV. That means that once you have HIV, you have it for life.
HIV attacks the body’s immune system. Over time, HIV can destroy many CD4 cells ("T cells"). These special cells help the immune system fight off infections. This damage to the immune system makes it harder for the body to fight off infections and other diseases.
HIV is the virus that can lead to a condition called acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, or AIDS. Opportunistic infections or cancers can take advantage of the weakened immune system which HIV causes, resulting in someone having AIDS.
No cure exists for HIV, but with proper medical care HIV can be managed. Just like when someone has diabetes, medical treatment can allow someone living with HIV to have a long, happy, and fulfilling life.
HIV Treatment = HIV Prevention. HIV Treatment can greatly lower the chance of passing HIV to others. If someone with HIV takes their medication regularly and is consistently able to maintain "undetectable" levels of virus in their blood, it is nearly impossible for them to pass the virus to someone else.
How is HIV Transmitted?
Only certain body fluids from a person who has HIV can transmit HIV during sex. Saliva and sweat are body fluids that do not transmit HIV.
The fluids that do transmit HIV can be thought of as "boy and girl juices," which are:
blood
cum (semen)
pre-cum (pre-seminal fluid)
vaginal fluids
breast milk
HIV can be transmitted when one of these fluids come in contact with a mucous membrane inside the rectum, vagina, penis, and mouth, or with damaged tissue or an open sore.
HIV can also be directly injected into the bloodstream through activities like sharing needles, syringe, or injection equipment. If you use injection drugs, it is important to never re-use or share needles or equipment.
Anal sex has the highest-risk for HIV — and bottoming is riskier than topping.
Oral sex has a low risk for HIV. However, several factors may increase that risk:
sores in the mouth, vagina, or penis
bleeding gums
oral contact with menstrual blood
having other STIs (gonorrhea, chlamydia, syphilis, HPV, herpes, etc.)
What's my risk for HIV?
Get #Tested
Healthy Sex?
Living with HIV
HIV 101
Text Line: 816.663.9842
The HIMM Project
3515 Broadway,
Kansas City, MO, 64111
(816) 663-9842 jonathona@kccareclinic.org
Hours
Mon 9am to 7:30pm
Tue 9am to 7:30pm
Wed 9am to 7:30pm
Thu 9am to 5:00pm
Fri 9am to 2:00pm
This site contains HIV prevention messages that may not be appropriate for all audiences. Since HIV infection is spread primarily through sexual practices or by sharing needles, prevention messaging and programs may address these topics. If you are not seeking such information or may be offended by such materials, please exit this website.