Morphine Street Price: How Much To Pay For Pills and Liquid?
Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888)-459-5511
Menu
Addiction Guides
Addiction Facts
What is Addiction?
Recognizing Addiction
Drug Abuse Statistics
Substance Abuse Triggers
Polydrug Use: Get the Facts
Drug Testing
Addiction Stories
Meth Addiction Stories
Heroin Addiction Stories
Gambling Addiction Stories
Marijuana Addiction Stories
Cocaine Addiction Stories
People at Risk
College Students abd Drug Abuse
Dual Diagnosis
Teenagers and Students
Veterans and Addictions
PTSD and Addiction
Self-Assessment
Substances
Alcohol Addiction
Effects of Alcoholism
Alcoholism Treatment
Alcoholism Recovery
Alcoholism Resources
Street Names of Addictive Substances
Understanding Drugs
Types of Drugs
Illicit Drugs
Marijuana
Crystal Meth
Spice
Cocaine
Crack
GHB
Amphetamine
Speed
Prescription Medication
Ambien
Ketamine
Vicodin
Gabapentin
Accutane
Provigil
Morphine
Zoloft
Prozac
Trazodone
Barbiturates
Fioricet
Stimulants
Nicotine
Adderall
Kratom
Ecstasy
Ritalin
Benzodiazepines
Valium
Restoril
Midazolam
Librium
Klonopin
Halcion
Ativan
Xanax
Hallucinogens
LSD
AL-LAD
Peyote
DMT
Ayhuasca
Shrooms
Opioids
Opiates
Heroin
Opium
Opana
Suboxone
Vicoprofen
Methadone
Fentanyl
Dilaudid
Demerol
Codeine
Tramadol
Oxycodone
Hydrocodone
Norco
Percocet
Sedative-Hypnotics
Lunesta
Sonata
Other Substances
Sleeping Pills
OTC Drugs
Diet Pills
Inhalants
Painkillers
Narcotics
Antidepressants
NPC
Anxiety Medication
Cyclobenzaprine
Lexapro
Baclofen
Vyvanse
Phenibut
Kava
Celexa
Treatment Guides
Treatment Stages
Addiction Treatment: the Overview
1 ► Intervention
2 ► Inpatient and Outpatient Therapy
3 ► Lifelong Commitment
Treatment for Substance Abuse: An Overview of Addiction Recovery Programs
Resources
Relapse Prevention Plan
Support Groups: An Overview
When a Loved One Has an Addiction
Drug Addiction Medications
Addiction and Rehab Hotlines
Find AA meetings
Find NA Meetings
Addiction Treatment Facility Locator
Rehab Guides
Facilities
Best Drug Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Outpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Drug Rehabs Near You
Outpatient Rehabs Near You
Types
Court Ordered Rehabs
Free and State Funded Rehabs
Rehabs for Veterans
Dual Diagnosis Rehabs
F.A.Q.
Rehab Question Answered
Can I Beat an Addiction On My Own?
How Long Does Rehab Take?
Medicaid and Medicare
Addiction Recovery Costs
Substances
LSD Rehab
Heroin Rehabs
Cocaine Rehab
Crystal Meth Rehab
GHB Rehab
Ecstasy Rehab
About Us
Our Community
Scholarship
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Addiction Treatment Events
Morphine – Street Prices, Varieties and Availability
Free 24/7 rehab helpline > (888)-459-5511
Morphine can come in some forms, with each of those forms fetching a slightly different average street price. Understanding the price of Morphine on the street in comparison to its legal counterpart is important. In most situations, Morphine pills street price will be vastly different from a legal prescription of the drug. The reason for that may be that you are not getting exactly what you pay for on the street. This is why it is so important to understand the price of Morphine on the street, as often, it can reflect the drugs purity and what you are putting into your body.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.
Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
Table of contents:
How Much Should I Pay For Morphine?
The Variety of Morphine Street Prices
Where Can I Buy Morphine?
How Much Should I Pay For Morphine?
Morphine is an opioid commonly used for pain relief during medical care. It relieves pain by altering pain receptors in the bodies organs. However, the drug is also highly addictive, and many who are treated with the drug become addicted to the drug and begin to use it recreationally. Once a user begins to use the drug recreationally, they may not be able to get a prescription or find it is too expensive. This is when they turn to the street.
Morphine price per mg is much more expensive legally than on the street. Morphine street price tends to be around $1 per mg, whereas legally it can cost $25.84 for 120 tablets of 15 mg, approximately $10 more. This may be because on the street drugs are mostly watered down with other, more deadly ingredients such as rat poison or cocaine, to make it even more addictive and further enhance the profits of the dealer. Another factor that may alter the street price of the drug is the way in which the drug is supplied. The drug can be taken orally, by tablet and can come in extended release form. Taking the pill crushed or as a tablet is much cheaper due to having to buy in bulk. However, price on the street is always influenced on by supply and demand in the location. This means in some places it may be difficult to find the drug for cheaper than legal prices anyway.
According to the US National Library of Medicine, Morphine street price is by far the lowest of all opioids, meaning users that can get hold of the drug on the street often turn to it for a very cheap fix.
The Variety of Morphine Street Prices
Morphine street prices vary considerably because of some factors.
One of those factors is the form in which it is sold in. Morphine can come as a liquid, morphine sulfate, pills or in extended form. All of which have differing price tags. The prices are as follows:
Liquid Morphine street price – $0.10-$0.50 per mg
Morphine Pill street price – $1 per mg
Morphine Sulfate street price – $1 per mg
Extended-release street price – $1-$2 per mg
Prices are also heavily dependent on the dosage of Morphine, the purity of the drug, as well as supply and demand in the area. Liquid Morphine in large cities in the north of the USA, as well as those such as Vancouver in Canada, have seen prices drop below $0.10 at times.
Where Can I Buy Morphine?
Morphine can be purchased from a pharmacy after gaining a prescription from a medical professional. It can also be purchased on the street. Despite Morphine pills price being more expensive to buy legally; through a pharmacy, it is a much safer option. Buying the drug on the street is not only illegal but incredibly dangerous. This is because there is no way of telling the additional ingredients have been added to the drug. In addition to that, if you buy on the street, you will not have the advice of a medical professional. This may mean you become addicted on even overdose before you realize the doses you are taking are in excess.
Buying opioids legally may be more expensive. However, there are ways to cut Morphine pills price legally. One of which is to compare prices in pharmacies. Not all pharmacies supply the drug at the same price, and not all forms of the drug cost the same. Shopping around may allow you to save up to $20 on 15mg.
Morphine – The Alternatives
Many become reliant on opioids as painkillers. This is why the debate between cheap Morphine on the street or legal and its safer equivalent from a pharmacy begins. However, there are alternatives to the drug to prevent this debate even being necessary. One option is other opioids, however, they will also cause addiction, reliance and be expensive. Therefore, there are some natural ways to alleviate pain, such as ginger, turmeric or even increasing the magnesium in your diet. These methods may not completely take away the pain, but they may lessen it enough for it to be bearable, meaning you don’t have to rely on the help of opioids like Morphine.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.
Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
If you or someone you love has developed an addiction to Morphine, then you should seek immediate medical assistance. Opioids are highly dangerous and excessive use has consequences. For any advice on where to go to get help or the most suitable treatment program for you, call on hotline on (888)-459-5511.
Morphine – Street Prices, Varieties and Availability
3.5 (70%) 2 votes
Addiction Resource » Addictive Substances: The Anatomy of Drug Addiction » Morphine Addiction and Treatment » Morphine – Street Prices, Varieties and Availability
Comments 11
Blaise
August 22, 2018 at 12:03 am Reply
Pls Can i have your Price list of morphine 120mg Price list
[email protected]
December 23, 2018 at 2:24 pm Reply
keep up the good work
Kerry Hemlow
January 30, 2019 at 4:23 pm Reply
How Much Do 100Mg Morphine Tablets Go 4 On The Street.
AnonymousInfo
January 31, 2019 at 11:45 am Reply
Depending in your location it varies but commonly sold $1 per Mg so a 100mg pill = $100 but you can always bargain and try to pay $25-80 never agree to pay full price so try to negotiate to a price your willing a pay and don’t be afraid to work out a deal
Pam
March 12, 2019 at 7:45 am Reply
So. The pure liquid Morphine 100mg per 5 more how is this equal to pills n how many pills n.its 120 ml bottle? So the cost of this also on streets? Thanks
Joan
March 17, 2019 at 2:07 am Reply
So crazy this conversation is happening abt the cost of street drugs. Better question is where can they be found?
alease
April 2, 2019 at 10:56 pm Reply
have a friend who is a professional but unfortunately an addict. Im just trying to understand why her family income is so strained. Thanks to this site, I understand the financial burden, but at the same time am disgusted because she now knows what she can bargain with
Chris
April 3, 2019 at 3:08 pm Reply
I see it this way, knowing the street prices os a bit of info that I suppose is helpful. Because I know that once the addiction is in place, best to be street smart! Once you run out. all pride aside, you’ll sell your soul to not feel the symptoms of withdrawal. But time told , when it starts interfering with paying your bills, it’s time for rehabilitation. Just keep in mind, just cuz theyey say it’s morphine..or what not, doesn’t mean that it is!
Rpearson
April 10, 2019 at 8:20 pm Reply
I have a frien d in Sacramento CA who found a bottle of liquid morphine it’s contents was of 30mg liked to be about 3oz he did not really research and yet he sold for 150 . dollar’s did he do good as far as price?I would have flushed it is
Jessica Kelsey
April 17, 2019 at 10:00 pm Reply
How much does a 200 mg morphine sulfate extended release go for on street
Mandy
April 18, 2019 at 3:29 pm Reply
Why in the world would people put street value online. It shouldn’t be sold on the streets, only given by a Dr who will monitor treatment closely
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Free 24/7 Treatment Helpline
(888)-459-5511
Speak confidentially with a compassionate counsellor.
Feel hope
without commitment.
Morphine Addiction Resources
Morphine Addiction: Overview
Morphine Street Names
How Long Does Morphine Stay In Your System
Morphine High
Morphine Withdrawal
Morphine Substance Interaction
Morphine Side Effects
Morphine Addiction Signs
Morphine Overdose
Morphine Street Prices
Morphine Dosage
Morphine Addiction Treatment
Drug Rehab Resources
Best Rehabs
Local Rehabs Locator
Free Rehabs
Court-Ordered Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs
Outpatient Rehabs
Jewish Rehabs
Veterans Rehabs
Holistic Rehabs
LGBT Rehab Centers
Dual Diagnosis Rehab Centers
Alcohol Hotlines
Rehab Hotlines
Luxury Rehabilitation
Private Rehabs
Christian Rehabs
Women-Only Rehabs
Men-Only Rehabs
Rehabs for Couples
Family Rehabs
Teen Rehabs
State-Funded Rehabs
No-Insurance Rehabs
Executive Rehabs
Resort Rehabs
Drug Rehab Information
Speak to a representative concerning substance abuse treatment or request printed material on alcohol or drugs.
(888)-459-5511
The information available at AddictionResource.com is not a substitute for professional medical help.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here
© 2014 - 2019 Addiction Resource
Terms And Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
About Us
➤