Sodium Bicarbonate Dosages, Warnings and Contraindications
0
Articles
Medical Articles
Magnesium »
Sodium Bicarbonate »
Cancer »
Diabetes »
Hydrogen Medicine »
Light and Heat »
All Medical Articles »
Need special Help? Get a consultation »
Protocol
Books
Consultations
About
Videos
FAQ & Contact
More
Consultations
About
Videos
FAQ & Contact
Sodium Bicarbonate (Baking Soda)
Studies, testimonials, side effects and uses of sodium bicarbonate
Sodium Bicarbonate (NaHCO3) commonly called baking soda is a natural substance used in the human body within the bloodstream to regulate pH as a counterbalance to acid build up, which is critical to life. It affects the pH of cells and tissues, balances cell voltage, and increases CO2 which helps with oxygenation. Sodium Bicarbonate is a powerful medical tool that everyone would benefit by knowing more about.
Sodium bicarbonate is an emergency room intensive care medicine that can be used at home on a daily basis, especially as one ages. Sodium Bicarbonate can be used as a first line of defense for a vast range of sickness including, cancer, flu, diabetes, kidney disease and even the common cold. Sodium Bicarbonate can be used in many forms whether transdermally in a bath, orally or nebulized for lung conditions. It is so powerful in it's ability to detox that it can even be used against radiation exposure.
Popular Topics
1 Detox Cleanse with Baking Soda
2 Sodium Bicarbonate Cancer Treatment Overview
3 Sodium Bicarbonate Side Effects and Contraindications
4 Baking Soda Uses in Daily Health
5 Vernon Johnston – Confirmed Bicarbonate Cancer Cure
Recent Articles
Why Use Baking Soda for Fungus Infections
A hushed panic is playing out in hospitals around the world as a deadly fungus is spreading killing a lot of people. Individual institution...
April 15 2019
Why Sodium Bicarbonate is an Effective Treatment for Disease and Cardiac Arrest
Sodium and potassium bicarbonates are nontoxic primary alkalizing agents for the prevention and treatment of cancer, liver disease, Type I &...
April 8 2019
About Baking Soda (Sodium Bicarbonate)
Yes, the baking soda you use should be aluminum free....look for one that states 100% sodium bicarbonate on the package, this means no addit...
September 18 2018
Treating Cancer with Sodium Bicarbonate – Good Idea or Not?
Treating Cancer with Sodium Bicarbonate – Good Idea or Not? Sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) is the least expensive, safest and perhaps most effective cancer medicine there is.
February 14 2017
Baking Soda and Lemon Juice
Dr. Loyd Jenkins of the Budwig Center says, “If there is one thing you could do every day that would dramatically fight disease and i...
August 22 2016
Magnesium Bicarbonate Alkaline Water
Dr. Lynda Frassetto of University of California, San Francisco says, “Insufficient amount of bicarbonates in our blood reduces our c...
March 30 2016
Older articles »
SODIUM BICARBONATE BUNDLE OFFER
This bundle includes the second edition of Sodium Bicarbonate and third edition of Treatment Essentials.
get yours
Join 90,000 others in my newsletter and get a free ebook!
Subscribe to Dr. Sircus's newsletter and receive for free an ebook and introductory articles that will guide you through his protocol and the medicinals that compose it..
Medical Articles
> Magnesium
> Sodium Bicarbonate
> Iodine
> Cancer
> Diabetes
scroll up
Join 90,000 others in my newsletter and get a free ebook!
Subscribe to Dr. Sircus's newsletter and receive for free an ebook and introductory articles that will guide you through his protocol and the medicinals that compose it.
My Account Articles Protocol About Dr. Sircus Consultations Books FAQ Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms
Magnesium Transdermal PH Medicine Iodine Medical Marijuana Oxygen Therapy Hydrogen Medicine Water Medicine Seed Nutrition Light and Heat Medicine
Legal notice: The Author specifically invokes the First Amendment rights of freedom of speech and of the press without prejudice. The information you will receive with our consultations is for informational purposes only under the rights guaranteed by the First Amendment of the Constitution for the United States of America, and should not in any way be used as a substitute for the advice of a physician or other licensed health care practitioner. The statements contained on my sites and in my books have not been evaluated by the FDA. The products discussed are not intended to diagnose, cure, prevent or treat any disease but are proven useful for health and life extension. We always recommend when and wherever possible that licensed local healthcare professionals be consulted.