Genetic conditions and inherited cancers - Macmillan Cancer Support
Close
Find information, articles and activities relevant to you.
I've just been diagnosed
I'm having treatment
I've finished treatment
Older people
Teens and young adults
Children's cancer
Someone I know has cancer
I'm looking after someone with cancer
Cancer and other conditions
Cancer and pregnancy
Home
How can we help you today?
Online Community
Online Community
Login My Macmillan
Create Account
Create Account
Information and support
Get involved
In your area
About us
Search
Search
Go
Donate
Cancer type: General information
Cancer type search
Submit
Back
<
>
General information
Anal cancer
Bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma)
Bladder cancer
Blood cancers
Bone cancer
Bone cancer, secondary
Bowel cancer
Brain tumours
Brain tumours, secondary
Breast cancer
Breast cancer, secondary
Cancer of unknown primary (CUP)
Cervical cancer
Children's cancer
Colon and rectal (colorectal)
Eye cancer (ocular melanoma)
Fallopian tube cancer
Gall bladder cancer
Head and neck cancers
Kaposi's sarcoma
Kidney cancer (renal cancer)
Larynx cancer
Leukaemia
Liver cancer, primary
Liver cancer, secondary
Lung cancer
Lung cancer, secondary
Lymph node cancer, secondary
Lymphoma
Melanoma
Mesothelioma
Multiple endocrine neoplasia 1 (MEN1)
Multiple endocrine neoplasia 2 (MEN2)
Myeloma
Neuroendocrine tumours (NETs)
Oesophageal (gullet) cancer
Ovarian cancer
Pancreatic cancer
Parathyroid gland tumours
Penis cancer
Peritoneal cancer, primary
Prostate cancer
Pseudomyxoma peritonei (PMP)
Skin cancer (non-melanoma)
Soft tissue sarcomas
Spinal cord tumours
Stomach cancer
Testicular cancer
Thymus cancer (thymoma & thymic carcinoma)
Thyroid cancer
Trachea (windpipe) cancer
Uterus
Vagina cancer
Vulva cancer
Womb (endometrial) cancer
Not found what you're looking for?
If you're struggling to find what you need, call our Support line on 0808 808 0000 (Monday to Friday, 9am-8pm)
More ways to contact us
Understanding
Understanding overview
What is cancer?
Cancer and cell types
Signs and symptoms of cancer
Getting diagnosed
How is cancer treated?
Why do cancers come back?
Diagnosing
Diagnosing overview
How cancers are diagnosed
Causes and risk factors
Organising
Organising overview
Your finances
Benefits and other financial support
Practical issues before and after treatment
Work and cancer
Travel and holidays
Planning for the future with advanced cancer
Make money one less worry
Treating
Treating overview
Decisions about treatment
Surgery
Chemotherapy
Radiotherapy
Hormonal therapies
Targeted therapies
Stem cell and bone marrow transplants
Supportive and other treatments
Clinical trials
Life after cancer treatment
Coping
Coping overview
Getting support
Your emotions
Maintaining a healthy lifestyle
Side effects and symptoms
Changes to appearance and body image
Relationships and sex
Talking about cancer
Advanced cancer
At the end of life
Complementary therapies
Resources
Resources overview
Publications
Other languages and formats
Cancer information videos
Research and evidence
Stories
Tools and toolkits
Information for teachers and schools
Training
Other sources of support
More
Home ›
Information and support ›
Diagnosing ›
Causes and risk factors ›
Genetic conditions and inherited cancers
Causes and risk factors
Need to talk? 0808 808 00 00 7 days a week, 8am-8pm Call us free*
Potential causes of cancer
Family history and genetics
Genetic conditions and inherited cancers
Pre-cancerous conditions
Genetic conditions and inherited cancers
You might be offered the chance to test for some genetic conditions. It's important to understand what might happen and the effect any possible results might have.
Inherited cancers
If a cancer occurs more often in a family than in the general population, some people in the family may have inherited a cancer susceptibility gene.
Inherited cancers: bowel cancer
A small number of bowel cancer cases are linked to genetic conditions, which run in families.
Inherited cancers: breast and ovarian cancer
Breast and ovarian cancer can sometimes be linked to gene changes, which can run in families.
Inherited cancers: ovarian cancer
Some cases of ovarian cancer are linked to altered genes, which can run in families.
Inherited cancers: prostate cancer
Some cases of prostate cancer are linked to certain inherited cancer genes, which can run in families. There are other risks, some of which can be reduced.
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP)
FAP is a condition that can run in families. If not treated, FAP causes a high risk of bowel cancer.
Lynch syndrome (LS)
Lynch syndrome is a condition that can run in families. It increases the risk of developing some cancers.
If you are referred to a genetics specialist
The genetics specialists will ask you questions about your family to help them work out if there is an increased risk of cancer in your family.
Genetic counselling
A genetic consultation is a discussion with a person trained in genetics. They will advise you on your risk of developing cancer.
Things to consider before having a genetic test
There are several things to consider before having a genetic test, including how you might feel if you do have a cancer gene.
Genetic testing
You will only be offered genetic testing if your family history suggests you may have inherited a cancer gene.
Having a high risk of cancer
Knowing you have an increased risk of cancer can be difficult. There are options for managing the risk and getting support.
You might also be interested in
Booklets and advice about genetics
Related
Information can help if you're worried about cancer in your family. Find out about risk, genetic testing and what you can do.
be.Macmillan
Talk about genetic testing
Related
It can be difficult to decide whether to go for tests about cancer and genes. We're here to help you talk about it.
Talking to us
Organise your own event
Get involved
Bring your great fundraising idea to life with our inspiration, guidance and advice about organising an event. You, and Team Macmillan, can change lives.
Organise your own event
In your area
Local area
What's happening near you? Find out about support groups, where to get information and how to get involved with Macmillan where you are.
In your area
Latest from the Online Community
Blog post
Genes and cancer
If several members of your family have had cancer you might be concerned about your risk. Our information development team has written a blog to explain more about genes and cancer.
Featured group
Emotional issues
Cancer can be emotionally draining, but sharing your feelings can help you and others in your situation. Talk about it here.
Latest posts in Emotional issues
Connerf1234 replied to Wife in hospital with blood cancer
Hi Anthony just came along your post, how are things going ? M husband was also diagnosed high risk MDS October 2018.
In Emotional issues
Aimee_es joined the group Emotional issues.
greg777 replied to Emotions
Hi TP69, Welcome to the forum although I’m sorry to read about what is currently happening for you. I would say what you are feeling...
In Emotional issues
Safe payments by:
Donate
About this site
Cookies
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Accessibility
Sitemap
Make a donation
Leave feedback
Macmillan sites
be.Macmillan
Community
Macmillan Shop
Learn Zone
Careers
Right there with you
We’re here to provide physical, financial and emotional support. So whatever cancer throws your way, we’re right there with you. Contact us.
Follow us
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Watch us on Youtube
Follow us on Pinterest
© Macmillan Cancer Support 2019
© Macmillan Cancer Support, registered charity in England and Wales (261017), Scotland (SC039907) and the Isle of Man (604). Also operating in Northern Ireland. A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales company number 2400969. Isle of Man company number 4694F. Registered office: 89 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7UQ. VAT no: 668265007
Share
Click for previous items
Macmillan Cancer Support Facebook share
Macmillan Cancer Support Twitter share
Pinterest
Print this page
Export this page as a PDF
Bookmark this page
Click for next items
Top
Top
Thanks
We rely on a number of sources to gather evidence for our information. If you’d like further information on the sources we use, please feel free to contact us on: bookletfeedback@macmillan.org.uk
All our information is reviewed by cancer or other relevant professionals to ensure that it’s accurate and reflects the best evidence available. We thank all those people who have provided expert review for the information on this page.
Our information is also reviewed by people affected by cancer to ensure it is as relevant and accessible as possible. Thank you to all those people who reviewed what you're reading and have helped our information to develop.
You could help us too when you join our Cancer Voices Network – find out more at: http://www.macmillan.org.uk/cancervoices
Need to talk? Call us free* 0808 808 00 00 7 days a week, 8am-8pm
© Macmillan Cancer Support 2019
© Macmillan Cancer Support, registered charity in England and Wales (261017), Scotland (SC039907) and the Isle of Man (604). Also operating in Northern Ireland. A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales company number 2400969. Isle of Man company number 4694F. Registered office: 89 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7UQ. VAT no: 668265007
We make every effort to ensure that the information we provide is accurate and up-to-date but it should not be relied upon as a substitute for specialist professional advice tailored to your situation. So far as is permitted by law, Macmillan does not accept liability in relation to the use of any information contained in this publication or third party information or websites included or referred to in it.
<% if (results.length !== 0) { if (parentNodes > 0) { %>
Top matches
<% if (childNodes > 0 || grandChildNodes > 0) { %>
More cancer types:
<% if (item.depthLevel > 1 && !item.isSynonymMatch) { %>
<% if (synonymNodes > 0) { %>
See also
()
We're sorry, we don't have any matches for that.
Browse all cancer types
Search the whole site for
Not found what you're looking for?
If you're struggling to find what you need, call our Support line on 0808 808 0000 (Monday to Friday, 9am-8pm)
More ways to contact us
<% if (item.brands.length > 0) { %> ( ® , )
<% if (item.brands.length > 0) { %> ( ® , )
® (brand name for )
<% if (item.brands.length > 0) { %> ( ® , ) (also known as )
No matches
(also known as )
No matches
Can't find what you were looking for?
Browse A-Z list