Early Signs of Pregnancy While Breastfeeding | Livestrong.com
Welcome
Sign up | Log in
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
News
Stronger Women
BMI Calculator
Food
Weight Management
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Follow Us!
Livestrong
Parenting
Pregnancy
Pregnancy and What to Expect
Early Signs of Pregnancy While Breastfeeding
Laura Candelaria
About the Author:
Laura Candelaria
Laura Candelaria is a family nurse practitioner and assistant professor of nursing and nutritional science. Her experience includes neonatal and pediatric intensive-care, women's oncology, gynecology, obstetrics, lactation, nutrition and infertility. She has been published in "Nursing Spectrum," "Newsday" and on various websites.
View Full Profile
Many women use breastfeeding as a method of natural contraception until they wean their babies. This method can be successful, but in some cases regular menstruation can begin before you wean your baby, such as if you start breastfeeding less when your baby stops waking up for night feedings, or when she begins to eat solid foods. You can't predict when your menstrual cycle will return, so you could use a barrier method of contraception such as condoms to prevent pregnancy. If you still become pregnant while breastfeeding, there are some symptoms you may experience.
mother kissing newborn (Image: Digital Vision./Photodisc/Getty Images)
Breast Pain and Tenderness
mother feeding child with bottle (Image: Wavebreakmedia Ltd/Wavebreak Media/Getty Images)
One of the first symptoms of pregnancy that a breastfeeding woman may experience is breast pain and tenderness. Women may experience an increase in nipple sensitivity at this time. According to EarlyPregnancySigns.com, pregnancy makes the nipple extra sore and irritated while nursing, triggering pain and discomfort for many. There are some natural treatments for sore nipples. These include the use of a nipple shield, applying Lansinoh cream to the breasts after feeding, and allowing the breasts to air dry after breastfeeding. For many women, extreme nipple tenderness leads to weaning their babies from breastfeeding. Those who continue nursing throughout pregnancy may experience relief from breast pain and nipple soreness as the pregnancy progresses.
Decreased Milk Production
child looking at bottle with mother's milk (Image: Wavebreakmedia Ltd/Wavebreak Media/Getty Images)
Your milk supply with likely slow down when you first become pregnant, according to HealthyChildren.org, which could be a sign of pregnancy. The content and taste of your breast milk will change throughout pregnancy. A woman may experience decreased milk production and changes in the appearance of her breast milk as her pregnancy progresses. A breastfeeding mother may notice that her child seems to be hungry more frequently and tries to initiate additional feedings. Decreased milk production and altered taste during pregnancy causes some babies to independently wean themselves from breast feeding. Supplementing with formula may be a sensible option for mothers who experience decreased milk production during pregnancy. If babies are of the right age, the addition of rice cereal or fruits and vegetables may help to satisfy their hunger.
Fatigue Early in Pregnancy
tired woman yawning on couch (Image: Marina Bartel/iStock/Getty Images)
Fatigue is a common sign of pregnancy in a breastfeeding mother. Breastfeeding puts additional stress on a woman's body causing women who are nursing to feel more tired and sleepy than usual. During pregnancy rising pregnancy hormones can cause an additional increase in fatigue. A nursing mother who is pregnant may find herself sleeping more than usual and requiring naps during the day. A sensible way to combat fatigue naturally is to consume protein-rich meals throughout the day. Mild exercise, drinking plenty of water, and taking a mid-day nap can also help alleviate pregnancy-related fatigue.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
EarlyPregnancySigns.net: Pregnancy Signs While Breast Feeding
HealthyChildren.org: Nursing During Pregnancy
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
How to Change a Baby From Breast Milk to Formula Milk
2
Warm Breasts & Tender Nipples While Breastfeeding
3
Signs of Conceiving a Baby
4
Reasons for Breast Sensitivity
5
How to Abruptly Stop Breastfeeding
6
Side Effects of Ending Breast-feeding
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.