sugar | Kevin Deeth
Kevin Deeth
AN ATHLETE'S PERSPECTIVE ON HEALTH, NUTRITION, AND EXERCISE
Tag Archives: sugar
The Truth About Chewing Gum
Posted by kdeeth21 in Uncategorized and tagged with artificial preservatives, artificial sweeteners, aspartme, control hunger, curb appetite, curb hunger cravings, diabeties, diet, fresh breath, gum, health, health facts, healthy breath, healthy choices, healthy gum, healthy living, healthy snack, hunger, improve concentration, improve focus, iprove memory, lose weight, nutrition, obesity, sugar, sugar-free foods, sugar-free gum, truth about gum, weight loss, weight loss tools September 14, 2012
The Truth About Chewing Gum
One of America’s favorite passtimes and quick fixes for bad breath, chewing gum is a daily ritual for millions of americans. Ever wonder what is in the gum you are chewing or what effect it has on your health?
Quick Stats
More than 100,000 tons of chewing gum being consumed every year.
Every year over 374 trillion sticks of chewing gum are made.
In the next 5 years, over 1 million metric tones of chewing gum will be produced.
The Chewing Gum Industry is profitable market. The world’s chewing gum industry is estimated to be worth approximately US $19 billion.
Potential Health Benefits of Chewing Gum.
Chewing gum improves memory
Some suggest that chewing gum can help in improving memory and enhance cognitive powers. Research studies show that people who chewed throughout standardized tests produced significantly better scores than people who did not. Some attribute this to an increase in the stimuli produced in the area in our brain linked to memory, the hippocampus, when you continuously move your jaw. Chewing gum can also increases blood flow to the brain. Some studies have reported that blood flow to the brain increases by as much as 25 to 40 percent during gum chewing. Also the act of chewing speeds up our heartbeat and blood pressure just enough to wake up both left-and right hemispheres to work together.
Check out this site for one of the first studies showing actual evidence of this. http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn2039-chewing-gum-improves-memory.html
Chewing gum reduces symptoms of stress
Research has shown that the rhythmic motion of chewing gum has a stress-reducing effect because relaxed and satisfied feelings. Psychiatrists and psychologists believe that chewing gum can help reduce tension and help to release nervous energy. Chewing gum may provide an outlet for frustration and irritation while also increasing alertness and concentration.
For more on this http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/releases/119826.php
Chewing gum helps to manage weight
With a low-calorie count (5 to 10 per serving), chewing gum is an inexpensive snack. According to some studies, adults who chewed gum ate 36 calories less of the snack than adults who did not chew gum. Both regular and sugar-free chewing gum helped adults to eat less by helping to curb their appetite. The physical act of gum chewing may help to reduce your cravings for high calorie snacks. Some reports show that chewing gum can burn around 11 calories per hour. (IE not to be used in place of actualy exercise)
Chewing gum improves digestion
Chewing gum helps to improve intestinal motility and also helps to increase saliva flow which promotes more frequent swallowing. This helps to prevent reflux of acid from the stomach back into the throat.
Chewing gum improves oral health
The results of scientific research demonstrate that chewing gum is good for oral health and teeth specifically. Chewing gum increases saliva, which is the most important component of oral health and powerful protector of the oral cavity. Stimulated saliva corrects a potentially harmful environment using its high concentration of buffers, minerals and antibacterial components. That helps to flush sugars, food debris and decay-causing acids out of the mouth. Chewing gum also freshens breath, whitens teeth by reducing stains and preventing stains from accumulating and reduces plaque.
Potential Health Risks of Chewing Gum
The basic make up of gum: gum base, softeners, sweeteners and flavorings. Ever wonder what makes up the sweetener and flavoring part?
The Ingredients
Sweeteners are added to gum to give it that sweet flavor. Those ingredients are usually sugar, corn syrup and even beet juice. Sugar is probably the healthiest off all sweeteners. Sweeteners such as xylitol, sorbitol, mannitol and aspartame are also used, which have been linked to several long-term health effects that are also found in diet sodas.
Some gum ingredients are suspected to be carcinogens or have been linked to various health conditions. Sugar can cause cavities and lead to health issues such as diabetes, while aspartame, a popular artificial sweetener, has been linked to cancer, diabetes, and neurological disorders. Chewing gum containing such ingredients can have dangerous and long-lasting health effects.
What about Sugar-less or Sugar-free gum?
Sugar-free chewing gum has a number of dental benefits. Sugar free chewing gum doesn’t cause tooth decay. It demineralises tooth enamel and has an antimicrobial effect. Those who chewed sugar-free gum after eating had fewer cavities than those who did not. HOWEVER, Sugar-free gum often contains either aspartame or sorbitol, the first being potentially toxic and increasing your hunger, and the second becoming a dangerous laxative in large doses. For me, it’s very similar to comparing soda to diet soda.
Jaw Related Issues
One of the most common health issues related to chewing gum is muscle fatigue due to overuse of the jaw muscles. This is known to lead to chronic headaches. The action of chewing gum can also cause unnecessary wear on the cartilage in the jaw joint. Frequent gum chewers may be more likely to develop problems in the temporomandibular joint, or TMJ
My suggestion
Most health nuts will advise you to switch to something outrageous like licorice root, parsley, or chewing on a natural tooth pic. I actually believe the benefits outweigh the negatives in terms of chewing gum. I suggest looking for a gum sweetened with erythritol ( a natural sugar alcohol which has recently gained popularity because of its inclusion in a few mainstream stevia based sweeteners),stevia, or lastly xylitol at a natural foods store. Identifying products with no sugar additives or artificial sweeteners is important with all food selections and should not be any different for gum. While it is more expensive, this type of gum is more safe and less likely to cause adverse health effects. Make your pack last twice as long by chewing half a piece a day versus a whole piece.
Thanks for reading and let me know if you have any questions.
From South Bend,
Kevin
kdeeth21@gmail.com
http://twitter.com/#!/kdeeth
http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=5619079
http://www.linkedin.com/profile/edit?trk=hb_tab_pro_top
Advertisements
Leave a comment
The Truth About Fruit
Posted by kdeeth21 in Uncategorized and tagged with berries, body composition, body fat, breakfast fruit, build muscle, diet, exercise, fruit, fruit after workout, fruit and body composition, fruit and fat, fruit and fat gain, fruit before workout, fruit energy, fruit servings, fruit timing, glycemic index, health, juice, juice and fat, kiwi, lose body fat, lose fat, low carb fruit, low glycemic fruit, muscle building fruit, nutrition, post workout snack, pre workout energy, pre workout snack, serving size per day, sugar, too much fruit, watermelon May 14, 2012
The Truth About Fruit
Fruits are a summer staple and excellent source of vitamins, minerals, and fiber. Whether it’s the antioxidants from berries, the cold preventing properties of citrus fruits, or the hydration benefits of water based fruits like watermelon, each fruit has a unique set of benefits. The recommended daily amount of fruit is dependent on total calorie intake but can lie anywhere between 3 and 7 servings. Here is an example of what you would be looking at to meet these requirements.
1/2 cup (4 fluid oz.) 100% fruit juice
1 medium fruit
1/2 cup fresh, frozen or canned fruit
1/4 cup dried fruit
Now Comes The Point Of This Article
With summer right around the corner, people start to become more concerned with their body image and composition. Being cognizant of foods you are putting in your body is essential to a lean physique. Fruits are no exception. Believe it or not, too much fruit or the wrong fruits can lead to increased body fat due to an excess amount of sugar ( in the form of fructose and glucose). Especially for those that aren’t as active as they should be, (you know who you are) limiting carbohydrate and sugar intake is important to keeping body fat off.
What To Eat
Choose 3-4 low carb fruit servings
Berries– Blueberries, blackberries, and raspberries are a staple in my diet. They are loaded with antioxidants, provide a great source of fiber, have a low glycemic value, and taste great. Add 1/2 cup to your oatmeal or breakfast in the morning (1/2 cup)
Calories- 42
Carbs- 12 g
Fat- 0g
Protein- 1 g
Sugar-8g
Grapefruit– Grapefruits have high amounts of water content which helps boost metabolism as well as containing numerous antioxidants. Grapefruits have a low glycemic value and contain soluble fiber which will help fill you up while being low in calories. (1/2 medium grapefruit)
Calories- 40
Carbs- 9g
Fat- 0g
Protein- 1g
Sugar-5g
Watermelon– One of the main health benefits of watermelon is its status as a powerful antioxidant, found in vitamins A and C. Watermelons are moderately high in sugar with a glycemic value of 72, but small amounts, especially after a workout can be part of a healthy diet. (1 wedge- approximately 1/16 of the watermelon)
Calories- 86
Carbs- 22g
Fat- 0g
Protein- 2 g
Sugar-18g
Kiwi– Kiwifruits are an excellent source of vitamin C, as one large kiwifruit contains about as much vitamin C as 6 oz of orange juice. They are also a very good source of vitamin K, and a good source of potassium and copper. (1 medium sized fruit)
Calories- 46
Carbs- 11 g
Fat- 0g
Protein- 1g
Sugar-7 g
When To Eat Fruit
In the mornings-A low glycemic fruit in the morning before breakfast will kick-start your day with powerful antioxidants and soluble fiber that will keep you feeling full. The sugar in the fruit will be burned off throughout your daily activities and workout as well. NOT AT NIGHT. A midnight snack is OK but don’t reach for the fruit and think it’s a healthy choice. Fruit digests out of the stomach in 20-30 minutes. If fruit is consumed at night, it will sit on top of the slower digesting foods and cause indigestion/excess fat storage.
Before a workout– A simple carb (fruit) 30-60 minutes before a workout will be converted into glucose and used by the body as energy during your workout.
After a workout– A simple carbohydrate within 30 minutes after your workout will help restore glycogen levels and raise insulin levels which will help muscle growth. This is the only time of the day when a high glycemic fruit is acceptable such as a ripe banana or a dried apricot. Make sure you don’t overdo it on portion size and try to pair the simple carb with a protein source for an optimal recovery source.
Have an orange. Not orange juice
Fruits are essential to a well-balanced diet. Like all food, moderation is key. Whenever possible, stay away from fruit juices as most contain artificial sweeteners and loads of added sugars. Fruits like apples, bananas, and dried fruits have high amounts of sugars and carbohydrates and should be timed appropriately around your workout. Eat fruits that you will give you the most bang for your buck. Things like berries, which are loaded with antioxidants but relatively low in calories, carbohydrates, and sugars will help contribute to an optimal diet and ideal body composition.
Thanks for reading and let me know if you have any comments or questions.
From South Bend,
Kevin
kdeeth21@gmail.com
http://twitter.com/#!/kdeeth
http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=5619079
http://www.linkedin.com/profile/edit?trk=hb_tab_pro_top
2 Comments
5 Great Fat Loss Tips For Summer
Posted by kdeeth21 in Uncategorized and tagged with active lifestyle, best way to burn fat, bike, blood sugar, burn calories, burning fat, circuit training, dead lifts, exercise, fat burn, fat loss tips, fat storage, greek yogurt, health, high protein, how to burn calories, insulin, lean meats, lose fat, lose weight, low carb, low glycemic, low sodium, metabolism, multi joint exercise, nutrition, nuts, power cleans, run, short rest intervals, squats, sugar, sugary drink alternatives, sugary drinks, swim, what to drink May 5, 2012
5 Great Fat Loss Tips For Summer
Utilize Multi-Joint Exercises
Multi-joint exercises work large muscle groups which require the most energy and create the largest anabolic response in your body which leads to the greatest amount of calorie expenditure. (long winded sentence?)
Multi-joint lifts imitate our natural movements by working several muscle groups and in the process create a healthier posture and more proportional frame.
The body works better in movements along a kinetic chain; that is, large portions of the body assist other portions of the body in completing a complex movement. Dont limit yourself to isolated movements (like a bicep curl) if you want to burn fat.
Multi-joint exercises increase your metabolic rate and stimulate production of more fat burning hormones such as growth hormones and testosterone.
Examples
Squats
Deadlifts
Power Cleans
Use Circuit Training And Short Rest Intervals
Circuit training creates maximal growth hormone responses which is the most efficient way to burn fat.
It is optimal for raising your metabolism which will have fat burning effects during your workout and up to 48 hours after your workout.
Short rest intervals ensure your heart rate stays elevated for the entirety of the workout which will create the largest amounts of caloric expenditure.
Examples
Supersets and tri-sets
Crossfit workouts
Interval training
Eat High Protein, Low Carb, Low Glycemic, And Unprocessed Food
Foods that fall under these guidelines will ensure you are conserving/building muscle and lean body mass while burning fat.
Foods with a low glycemic index will allow you to control your blood sugar and maintain steady insulin levels which will limit fat storage and ensure a healthy metabolism.
Low-carb and unprocessed foods will be utilized by the body as energy and help to break down proteins and fats which will help trigger the fat burning function in the body.
High protein and high fiber foods will keep you feeling full longer and help prevent overeating.
Examples
Lean meats
Cruciferous vegetables
Greek yogurt
Nuts
Nut butters
Cut Out Juice, Soda, Sports Drinks, And Limit Alcohol.
Sugary drinks are the single largest source of calories in the American diet and over half of Americans have sugary drinks every day.
Definitely the most relevant tip on the list for summer is avoiding any drinks that are high in sugar, calories, artificial sweeteners, and sodium.
Sugary drinks can cause enormous insulin spikes which will offset your hormonal balance and can lead to extra fat storage. Likewise, sugary sodas and drinks can stimulate appetite and cause you to overeat even though you may not be hungry.
Every liquid calorie is a calorie added to the day’s total. Liquid calories don’t fill you up or deliver the essential vitamins, nutrients, and fiber you get from whole foods. Drinking liquid calories doesn’t have a huge impact on what you eat that rest of the day either. Over the last 20 years, Americans have added between 150 and 300 calories to their daily diets — about half of them in liquid form.
Alcohol is an entirely different story in itself, but from my perspective, drinking one or two nights a week will not have a dramatic impact on fat loss. Just remember, EVERYTHING IN MODERATION!
Examples of what to drink
Water with lime
Tea
Coffee
Almond Milk
Red wine/clear liquors without a sugary mixer.
Burn Calories Outside Of The Gym.
This one can put you over the edge in terms of reaching your body composition goals. Stay active, especially in the summer. Whether it’s a beach volleyball game, throwing the football around, or going for a walk after dinner having an active mentality and lifestyle will ensure your muscles get the work they need and your metabolism and heart rate stay mildly elevated.
Dont settle for exercise in the gym alone. Take the stairs, park farther away from the door, and perform activities other than sitting on the couch watching TV.
Examples
Swim
Walk your dog
Go hiking
Join a softball league
Play pick-up basketball
Thanks for reading and hopefully these tips will help you achieve the summer-bod you have been working towards. Let me know if you have any questions or comments. Thanks.
From South Bend,
Kevin
kdeeth21@gmail.com
http://twitter.com/#!/kdeeth
http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=5619079
http://www.linkedin.com/profile/edit?trk=hb_tab_pro_top
2 Comments
About Me
kdeeth21
Recent Posts
2012 in review
5 Reasons To Drink More Tea
Social Acceptance of Mediocrity
Healthy Spices You Should Add To Your Diet.
GAME DAY NUTRITION
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Follow
Facebook
!-- Facebook Badge START -->Kevin Deeth
Create Your Badge
Latest Tweets
Happy beastism for #dawsondeeth #3birds1stone @ Notre Dame, Indiana instagram.com/p/BwiFcNZHYkl/… 3 days ago
Tim McGraw circa 1997 @ Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center instagram.com/p/BwOGjIMnjxa/… 1 week ago
First cold immersion swim of Spring. Pool Temp: 48 degrees. Air Temp: 43 degrees. 5 minutes instagram.com/p/BwM0wPUHS-g/… 1 week ago
#captaincrunch #viticolewineclub #fermentedgrapes #whitcraftwinery @ Notre Dame, Indiana instagram.com/p/BvpZyf0nxSq/… 3 weeks ago
Kid needs to mix in some squats instagram.com/p/BvcxFCRBDrc/… 1 month ago
Linkedin
http://www.linkedin.com/profile/edit?trk=hb_tab_pro_top
Archives
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
Categories
Uncategorized
Advertisements
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy