What Fish Is High in Cholesterol? | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Diseases and Conditions
Blood Conditions
High Cholesterol
What Fish Is High in Cholesterol?
Laura Niedziocha
About the Author:
Laura Niedziocha
Laura Niedziocha began her writing career in 2007. She has contributed material to the Stoneking Physical Therapy and Wellness Center in Lambertville, N.J., and her work has appeared in various online publications. Niedziocha graduated from Temple University with a Bachelor of Science in exercise science. She also has her Associate of Arts in communications from the Community College of Philadelphia. <br>
View Full Profile
For better heart health, the American Heart Association recommends consuming fish at least twice per week. You may be wondering if this is true for all fish or if you should limit fish that are high in cholesterol and fat. The truth is, when compared with meat, fish is relatively low in cholesterol. Shellfish is a high-cholesterol fish, but even this food may be worked into a healthy diet.
Minor Cholesterol Risk
Watching your cholesterol intake will help you lower your blood cholesterol and improve your cardiovascular health. Skipping fish because you are scared of the cholesterol content may not be in your best interest. Most fish are low in cholesterol and are a healthy source of some essential fatty acids that can improve your heart health. Fatty fish contain omega-3 fatty acids, which reduce blood pressure and slow the deposition of plaque on the walls of your arteries, according to the American Heart Association.
High-Cholesterol Seafood
Shellfish such as mussels, crab, lobster, shrimp and oysters are the highest-cholesterol seafood. A serving of 15 large shrimp contains 166 milligrams of cholesterol. Four or five steamed mussels contain 48 milligrams of cholesterol. You'll get 80 milligrams of cholesterol in 3 ounces of crab, and the same amount of lobster contains 61 milligrams.
Cholesterol Comparison
Although shellfish may seem to have a high cholesterol content, this amount is still low to moderate when you compare it with meat. For example, a 3.5-ounce sirloin steak has 80 milligrams of cholesterol, 3.5 ounces of lamb contains 106 and one egg has 212 milligrams. If you consider the amount of seafood you eat compared to the amount of meat you eat, even shellfish is lower in cholesterol and healthier than certain meats. This reason, in addition to its low saturated-fat content, is why the American Heart Association recommends substituting fish for meat twice per week.
Preparation
How you prepare your fish can either enhance the health of it or increase the fat and cholesterol content. Lobster and crab can quickly become loaded with fat and cholesterol when served with a bowl of melted butter. Mussels, oysters and clams can also be unhealthy if deep fried. Grill, steam or bake your fish and shellfish using olive oil instead of butter as well as low-sodium herbs and spices instead of salt.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
American Heart Association: Fish 101
Go Ask Alice!: Shellfish: Cholesterol Content
American Heart Association: Cooking for Lower Cholesterol
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
What Is the Cholesterol Content of Fish & Shellfish?
2
Seafood That Is High in Cholesterol
3
How Often Can You Eat Canned Salmon?
4
Is Crab Meat High in Cholesterol?
5
Can I Eat Fish Every Day & Still Be Healthy?
6
High-Protein Foods Low in Cholesterol
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.