When should I expect to get my first period... | MummyPages.MummyPages.ie
Home
Lifestage
Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy
Baby Names
Newborn & Baby
Toddler
Preschooler
Big Kids
School Days
Tweens
Teens
Life
Family
Mum's Life
House & Home
Travel
Health
Parties
Beauty
Style
Finance
Eco Living
Today
Family Adventures
Things We Love
TV
Food
Food
Recipes
Videos
Baking
Cookies & Biscuits
Easy Recipes
Desserts
Dinners
Snacks
Lunchbox Ideas
Voices
Real Mum Voices
Product Trials
Experts
MummyPages Plus
Family
Children's Fashion
Family Car
Family Entertainment and Tech
Games for Kids
Holidays & Celebrations
Just for Dads
Money
Relationships
Sex & Contraception
Siblings
Sleep for Mum & Dad
Family Life tools
Reading Centre
Pain, Cold and Flu Centre
Topical
Popular Competition time with Citroën Win with Birds Eye Get published Mum Chat Rewards
Family Life Sex & Contraception Questions List
You asked
When should I expect to get my first period after my baby is born?
There are no hard and fast rules about when you can expect to start menstruating after your baby is born. Every woman is different. However, experts agree that how soon your period returns has a lot to do with how much you breastfeed your child.
Mums who don’t breastfeed and feed their child exclusively on formula can expect their normal cycle to resume as quickly as one month after the birth of their child.
Those who’s babies sleep through from an early age, or who feed a mixture of breast milk and formula, may find that their periods take a few months to return. Women who breastfeed exclusively however, and who wake at night to feed their babies, might not have their first post baby period for as much as a year after the birth of their child.
It’s important to note, however, that as with your normal cycle, an egg is released roughly two weeks before your period. That means that because there’s no way of predicting when you will start ovulating and menstruating again, you need to ensure that you are using birth control. Otherwise, it’s entirely possible to get pregnant again while you are breastfeeding. It’s a myth that you are infertile when you are breastfeeding so make sure you are as careful as if you were having your regular cycle.
More questions
Sex after pregnancy: what are the risks of having sex before my six week post-natal check up?
There are some very good reasons that you would want to avoid sexual intercourse.
Will my vagina stay stretched out after delivery?
Your vagina will naturally shrink after delivery, as your body heals, but whether it returns to its original size, depends on a number of factors.
Will my menstrual cycle be regular while I'm breastfeeding?
Your menstrual cycle usually starts towards the end of your breastfeeding phase, but how regular it is once it is back varies from woman to woman.
Will it hurt the first time I have sex after having my baby?
It is not uncommon for women to experience pain and discomfort during sex, for the first couple of months after having a baby.
How effective is the Breastfeeding Method of birth control?
The delaying effect that breastfeeding has on the return of normal menstruation has an effect on fertility and can be considered as a method of contraception – although it is not a very reliable one.
How can the intrauterine system prevent me from falling pregnant?
The Intrauterine System, or IUS, is an effective method of birth control that is safe to use while breastfeeding.
Breastfeeding and sex drive. Is there a connection?
It is true that some women experience a drop in their sex drive while breastfeeding, however, this isn’t always the case.
When should I expect to get my first period after my baby is born?
The return to your normal cycle is not a hard and fast rule and it can take anything from a month to a year before your first post baby period happens.
When do most couples start having sex again after their baby is born?
It is entirely up to you and your husband as to when you want to start having sex after the birth of your baby. The best thing to do is to have patience and wait until your body is ready for sex after your baby is born.
My husband wants me to have sex but I'm not ready.
As very often happens, if you are just too tired to have sex after a long day, then tell your husband. If he is understanding and clever, he will help you as much as he can. After all, you will both benefit from this.
View More
Latest
25 encouraging things to say to your kids when they need a confidence boost
Here's everything coming to Netflix this Easter weekend
One in FIVE dads have missed the birth of their kid, says study
Trending
6 little things that will make trips to the doctor/dentist less scary for your kiddo
Daddies and their daughters- a masterclass in manipulation
New paid parental leave scheme to be introduced in November
Trending and Sponsored
More Stories You’ll Love
Newborn & Baby
Pippa Middleton opens up about her baby boy Arthur for the first time
Family Health
6 little things that will make trips to the doctor/dentist less scary for your kiddo
Pregnancy
Emmerdale star Hayley Tamaddon confirms she is expecting her first child
Mum's Life
Kelly Clarkson has firm views about telling kids that the Easter Bunny exists
Mum's Life
Skipping breakfast increases your risk of heart diseases, study claims
Mum's Life
No royal mum-shaming: Meghan shunning a postpartum performance is admirable
About Advertise Disclaimer Posting Rules Privacy & Cookies Get in touch Suggestions T&C's Unsubscribe
Déanta in Éirinn - Sheology
Hello Mama!
Help us help you by allowing us and our partners to remember your device as having browsed MummyPages and serve you better content and ads
We're on a mission to help our mums and their families thrive by informing, connecting and entertaining.
Join us in our mission by consenting to the use of cookies and IP address recognition by us and our partners to serve you content (including ads) best suited to your interests, both here and around the web.
We promise never to share any other information that may be deemed personal unless you explicitly tell us it's ok.
If you want more info, see our privacy policy.
Count me in! I consent
No thanks.
Manage Preferences