How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bites and Lower the Risks
Menu
Home
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Skin Problems & Advice
Acne
Natural Skin Care
Mens Skin Care
Skin Care Ingredients
Healthy Living
How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bites and Lower the Risks
Skin Problems & Advice
Mosquitos are just small insects that are commonly found living around human beings. The way of the reproduction, which needs protein from bloods to make eggs, makes mosquitos the enemy of humans.
It sucks human’s bloods with its tiny pipeline in its mouthpart and the remaining saliva cause annoying itchy. In worse condition, it can cause allergic reactions and virus infections.
For the bad effects of mosquito bites, all people should know about how to get rid of mosquito bites, as well as how to prevent the bites so it won’t cause further bad effects.
Besides knowing about how risky the mosquito bites are. There are some ideas of natural home remedy for mosquito bites as well as some practical tips to make mosquito repellents.
You can use the ideas to make sure that you and your loved ones will not bitten by the mosquitos; either at home or the outside of home.
Image: washington.edu
What is Mosquito Bite?
Mosquito bites are bumping appearance on skin that feels itchy after the skin contact with mosquitoes and they have looked using the mouthparts for skin puncturing and feeding on your blood.
In some cases, mosquito bites are not dangerous and the bumping skin could clear up in some hours or up to a few days by its own or by some remedy of how to get rid of mosquito bites.
However, rarely the bites could also cause swelling, redness and soreness in a large area of skin. Children are the most common one who gets such reaction, which is also called skeeter syndrome.
The signs of mosquito bite can be such as;
Reddish bumping skin, white and puffy look after a mosquito bites.
Reddish or brown bumping skin, itchy and hard that appears soon after a mosquito bites or a day after it.
Small blistering skin.
Spotting in dark color that seems like discolorations.
Those who are never exposed by certain type of mosquito or having certain disorders in their immune system, either adults or children, may experience more severe skin reactions for mosquito bites, such as;
Redness and swelling skin in large area
Suffering fever
Rashes
The lymph nodes get swollen
The more severe reactions in children than in adults may be caused by the desensitized adults because they have been bitten by mosquitos more often throughout their life.
You must see a doctor to examine your condition when the mosquito bites are causing body aches, fever, infection signs, or headache.
The Facts about Mosquito Bites
Mosquito bites seem to be nothing to worry for most people and they think that everything is OK since they know how to get rid of mosquito bites. Actually, there are some facts that should be known by everyone about mosquito bites.
The concern to the mosquito bites is increasing recently since the West Nile virus that lately becomes the news. The advisor of National Pest Management Association and the medical director of Loyola University Medical System Infection Control Program, Dr. Jorge Parada, MD, told much about the surprising facts about mosquitoes and their annoying bites. The facts are;
Not All Types of Mosquitoes Bite
Dr. Parada said that there are over 3,500 species mosquitos in all over the world but not all of the types are biting humans.
Mosquitos that are biting and sucking bloods are only female mosquitos because they need the bloods to get protein intake for eggs production.
In United States, two types of mosquitos that spread diseases are Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus that is also called as Asian tiger mosquito since it has stripes in black and white colors.
There is Certain Favorite Blood Type for Mosquitos, is that True?
The answer for this is doubtful. Yes, Dr. Parada said that the findings of the studies that proved that Type O blood got more mosquito bites than type A and B blood are doubtful. The finding that dark clothes could attract more mosquitoes also still has little evidence.
More CO2 Attracts More Mosquitos
Those who exhale more CO2 or carbon dioxide are more likely to be drawn by mosquitos. Some studies proved that beer drinkers and pregnant women can attract more mosquitos to come and bite.
Dr. Parada said that the chemical signals and body heat of humans become hosts for the mosquitos to find. He added that more carbon dioxide produced by humans eased mosquitos to find the presence of their foods.
Some People Get More Itchy Feelings
Dr. Parada also stated that some people could feel worse itchy feelings after being bitten by a mosquito and they get more distinct hives or bumps.
The doctor explained that the histamine releasing to respond mosquito saliva is the reason of why the skin gets itchy.
When you scratch the bumping itchy skin for mosquito bites, you can feel more itchy feelings. It is because of the more histamine response inside your body for the skeeter saliva of the mosquito is stirred up inside the skin.
Furthermore, over scratching to the itchy skin will break the skin and then it will increase the possibility of infection.
Risks of Mosquito Bites
If you think that being bitten by a mosquito isn’t something dangerous, you may think twice when you know more risks of the mosquito bites. Mosquito bites are not merely about feeling itchy and bumping skin and then over scratching make it breaks and cause infection.
There are more risky infections that can be caused by mosquito bites. You must need to look for the way of how to get rid of mosquito bites when knowing the risks.
Scary Viruses Spread Through Mosquitos
Infected mosquitoes by kinds of virus could transmit the virus to the bitten human. One of the scary viruses is Chikungunya. This virus infection could cause severe symptoms to human and it hasn’t the drug treatment and vaccine yet.
The first case was reported on the Caribbean Islands, North America. But many cases recently happened in United States. The virus infection causes some symptoms that appear in 4-8 days after the mosquito bite like joint swelling and pain, fever, and headache that could last up to one week. However, the painful feeling caused by the virus infection isn’t fatal in the patients.
West Nile Virus Infection
Another threat brought by mosquito bites is the West Nile Virus infection. It also originally comes from North America. People should be aware of the threat especially in the seasons when mosquitos become more active like in early fall and summer.
Dr. Parada explained that the infection of West Nile virus cause mild illness and the patients can get recovered completely. However, serious infections may happen in those who suffer diabetes, immune system problem or older adults.
You should get medical attention soon after you get severe headache, high fever, nausea, muscle aches, or vomiting.
Get Rid of the Mosquito Bites Itching
Get bitten by mosquitos must bring uncomfortable feeling on skin. Some people may also get allergic reactions. To treat this problem, you can do some following treatments.
Wash the Mosquito Bites Soon
When you realize that you are bitten by a mosquito, you should wash it as soon as possible. The washing with water and soap will decrease the itchy feeling. Next, rub a little alcohol on the bitten skin so you will not feel the itchy anymore.
Calamine Lotion or Hydrocortisone Cream
Those two solutions are anti-itch solutions that will reduce the itchy feelings after bitten by mosquitos. Ferric oxide and anti-pruritic with zinc oxide are the contents inside calamine lotion.
It is commonly used in all over the world to treat itchy on skin including for mosquitos bites. Meanwhile, the OTC Hydrocortisone is also another mostly used solution in the world. The 1% steroids content could help relieving itchy on skin.
Rub Underarm Deodorant or Hazel
Underarm deodorant commonly contains aluminum chloride that works to stop swelling and pain for mosquito bites. Meanwhile, hazel is originally traditional solution of American Indians as astringent. This plant contains anti-inflammatory and anti-itch properties that will help relieving mosquito bites.
Epsom Salts plus Water to Soak the Mosquito Bites
The main contents of Epsom salts are sulfate and magnesium. This home remedy option works as the agent that makes mind relaxed.
Kinds of enzymes will be activated by magnesium so the level of serotonin in the brain is increasing. To use Epsom salt to relieve mosquito bites, you can do some steps below;
Soak the bitten skin area into a bathtub with a pack of Epsom salts filled before; do it in about one hour.
Make thin paste that is made from Epsom salts and some water that are mixed well. Use the solution to compress the bitten skin. Apply the paste and then cover it with very hot washcloth in about 10 minutes. Do it as many as times you need until the itchy and bumpy skin relieved.
How to Reduce the Mosquito Bites Swelling
Sometimes, mosquito bites are also causing swelling, to curb the inflammation, some tricks of how to get rid of mosquito bites below may help;
Compress the itchy, swelling and painful mosquito bites with crushed ice that is placed into a cold pack or bag.
Get natural or oral antihistamine; it will help reducing itchy and swelling feeling on skin. There are some natural antihistamine ingredients that can be chosen such as;
Stinging nettle, it will reduce histamine production inside the body, use it in freeze dried as recommended by doctors.
Coldsfoot, this is another natural antihistamine that has been used by Europeans since the ancient time. The plant can help curing skin problems. It is also has been made in extract or paste so people can consume it easily.
Basil, you can use this natural antihistamine plant by heating two sprigs of basil leaves in steaming pot and then rub the leaves gently on the bitten skin. It will stop the body to translate mosquito saliva as foreign agent to fight and then causing hives.
Read More: Best Skin Lightening Cream for Dark Skin
Home Remedies to Cure Mosquito Bites
More about how to get rid of mosquito bites can be gotten easily by some home remedy options, as following.
Essential Oils to Soothe Mosquito Bites
The functions of the essential oils are to soothe the skin, reduce the bumping skin for the mosquito bites, and also treat the inflammation.
You should choose the right essential oil because some type of essential oil could cause allergic reaction on skin or other side effect. Like lavender oil that can also invite bees as the function to treat mosquito bites. The best options of essential oils for mosquito bites are such as;
Tea tree oil. This essential oil is well-known for its anti-inflammatory and antiviral function. It doesn’t only treat acne, dandruff, and athlete’s foot, but also can treat mosquito bites by reducing the itchy and preventing infections in the break skin.
Lavender oil. It has almost same functions with tea tree oil as essential oil to reduce inflammation, treat swelling and cure the itchy skin. However, this oil may invite bees to get close so you should be careful to use it.
Banana Peel to Treat Mosquito Bites
Mosquito bites can also be relieved simply by using the peel of banana; something that is always ended in waste bin. To use this, you should start by treating the mosquito bitten area with hand sanitizer.
Continue with rubbing the area with the banana peel in about 5-10 minutes. Use the inside of the peel for rubbing. This solution will not only reduce the skin but also improve the moisture of the skin.
Meat Tenderizer Powder
You can use this solution by making a paste made from one tablespoon of dry meat tenderizer powder and one tablespoon of water. Use the paste to relieve mosquito bitten itchy area.
Meat tenderizer powder contains bromelain or papain that will reduce insect bites venom, the mosquito saliva remained under the skin will be drawn out so the itchy feeling will be reduced.
Bromelain is actually an enzyme that also can be found in pineapples’ stem and juice. Meanwhile, papain can be found in mountain papaya and papaya.
Therefore, if you don’t have the powder of meat tenderizer, you can use pineapple or papaya as the alternative of how to get rid of mosquito bites itchy. Apply a cut of the fruits on the affected skin until you can feel better.
Clear Nail Polish
It may sound silly but the nail polish also works to reduce itchy skin for mosquito bites. Apply the clear nail polish on the bitten skin and let it dry in some minutes. Pile it off after it is dry and then reapply it whenever needed.
Organic Cider Vinegar
The acidity of cider vinegar is the reason for it can relieve itchy feeling caused by mosquito bites. The less acidic of apple cider vinegar will balance the skin pH of the affected area. You can use cider vinegar to cure mosquito bites itchiness in some ways, such as;
Liquid solution application; make apple cider vinegar and warm water mix in the same amount. Using a cotton ball, apply the cider vinegar onto bitten skin. Let the vinegar dry in some minutes. You can reapply the solution if necessary.
Paste solution; make a mixing of corn flour and cider vinegar in the same amount until it becomes paste, apply the paste to the affected skin and let it dry. Wash the remaining paste with warm water.
Preventing Mosquito Bites
Instead of curing the itchiness, bumpy skin or even infections for mosquito bites, it is better to prevent the bites of the mosquito. It will not make you have the risks.
In the seasons when more mosquitos are found like summer and early fall, you should gain the protection in yourself and environment so the mosquitos will not bite and bring health problems. Some prevention steps below may help;
Consuming Vitamin B1 Every Day
It has been proven in some studies that vitamin B1 consumption could change the scent of your body. The different scent will not attractive for the mosquitos to get close or even biting.
Reduce the Places for Mosquitos to Put Eggs
It is important task to do; you should keep the environment clean and free of standing water that is favorite place for mosquitos to put their eggs. Unblock any gutters, regularly change the water in birdbaths, wading pools or other water containers. If you don’t use the containers, put them up side down so no water could be collected.
Make Sure that Your Home is Well-Screened
Screening your home is important to prevent insects coming inside including mosquitos. When you find any holes in the screen, fix it soon so there is no mosquito has chance to get in.
Additionally, get insect repellent that is containing DEET, lemon eucalyptus oil, picaridin, citronella, or other anti-mosquitos essential oils. Meanwhile, if you find many mosquitos outside home, make sure all family members are well-protected.
Wear protective clothes whenever you are going to go outside. Protect the entire body parts that are possibly getting mosquito bites. Don’t forget to protect your baby’s stroller with mosquito net so the baby will bitten by mosquitos.
Making DIY Mosquito Repellent
It is easy to make DIY mosquito repellent; just like how to make mosquito lamp or candle.
Prepare an empty can with lid, dish sponge, and some essential oils that aren’t liked by mosquitos such as citronella, lavender, lemongrass, peppermint, etc.
Soak the sponge into the essential oils.
Open the lid of the can to use the repellent’s ambient because the essential oils will waft out from the can.
Making DIY Mosquito Spray
All you need to make Mosquito Spray to get of mosquito bites are vinegar and natural oils. In these tips, you need to have eucalyptus oil but you can substitute it with other kinds of anti-mosquito oils. Follow the steps below to make the spray;
Mix into a spray bottle, the materials such as ½ cup of witch hazel, ½ cup of apple vinegar, and essential oils in 30-50 drops.
Shake the ingredients well and then you can use it as repellent solution. Spray it and spread to the entire opened body parts so you can be protected all day from mosquitos.
Dried and Fresh Herbs to Make Mosquito Repellent
This mosquito repellent is made from main ingredients such as witch hazel and herbs. Insects don’t like the smells of the herbs so it will be effective mosquito repellent.
Prepare a cup of water and 3-4 tablespoons of dried citronella, peppermint, lavender, cloves, lemongrass, or catnip, or combinations of them.
Boil the ingredients until the water gets set until ½ cup.
Let the solution becomes lukewarm and store in a fridge.
Use the mosquito repellent onto your skin whenever needed.
Other Ways to Apply Mosquito Repellent
Besides making mosquito repellent from kinds of ingredient to mix, you also can use the anti-mosquito ingredients directly;
Lavender oils or the lavender flowers. It is effective ingredients of mosquito or other insects repellent including the fleas in your pets. Just rub it in your wrists or other areas in your body that may be annoyed by mosquitos.
Mint oil or other similar oils such as peppermint, spearmint, pennyroyal, and catnip. It will not only become mosquito repellent but also giving nice classic and sweet fragrance.
Basil or basil oil, it is also disliked by flies and moths. You can use it by rubbing it directly onto your skin.
Garlic, it is also an effective mosquitos and other flies repellent. However, the distinct smell is disliked by most humans. So you can use it to get out the flies since you can stand the smell.
Those are some explanations about mosquitos’ bites and some tips about how to get rid of mosquito bites. Hopefully, it can bring more information and make great use to help you handle the problems caused by mosquitos.
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Tweet
Pin It
Related Posts
AdminSkin Problems & Advice
523 Views
Beautiful, Glowing Skin Isn’t Rocket Science
AdminSkin Problems & Advice
205 Views
The Cause and Way to Overcome Oily Skin
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Popular
Recent
Categories
Acne
Hair Care
Healthy Living
Mens Skin Care
Natural Skin Care
Skin Care Ingredients
Skin Problems & Advice
Derma Clue Copyright © 2019.
Theme by MyThemeShop
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy