After Wisdom Tooth Removal Cupertino CA
Skip to main content
Cupertino Office Phone Number
Call Us Today
Cupertino Office Phone Number 408-873-8484
Peterson Oral Surgery
Leonard W. Peterson, D.D.S. Board Certified Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeon
Home
Patient Information
Welcome
Financial Policy
Scheduling
First Visit
Insurance
Privacy Policy
Online Videos
Patient Registration
Advanced Technologies
Cone Beam CT Scan
Digital Panorex
Electronic Medical Records
Procedures
Dental Implants
Bone Grafting
Jaw Bone Health
Jawbone Loss and Deterioration
About Bone Grafting
Ridge Augmentation
Sinus Lift
Socket Preservation
Wisdom Teeth
Facial Trauma
Pre-Prosthetic Surgery
Oral Pathology
Platelet Rich Plasma
Impacted Canines
Meet Us
Meet the Doctor
Meet the Staff
Surgical Instructions
Before Anesthesia
After Placement of Dental Implants
Wisdom Teeth Removal
Exposure of an Impacted Tooth
Extractions
Multiple Extractions
Sinus Lift Instructions
Referring Doctors
Referral Form
Links of Interest
Contact Us
Contact Information / Office Map
Home
/
Surgical Instructions
/ Wisdom Teeth Removal
After Wisdom Tooth Removal
The removal of impacted teeth is a serious surgical procedure. Post-operative care is very important. Unnecessary pain and the complications of infection and swelling can be minimized if the instructions are followed carefully.
Immediately Following Surgery
The gauze pad placed over the surgical area should be kept in place for one hour. After this time, the gauze pad should be removed and discarded.
Vigorous mouth rinsing or touching the wound area following surgery should be avoided. This may initiate bleeding by causing the blood clot that has formed to become dislodged.
Take the prescribed pain medications while you are still numb this will help as the local anesthetic wears off.
Restrict your activities the day of surgery and resume normal activity when you feel comfortable. •
Place ice packs to the sides of your face where surgery was performed. Refer to the section on swelling for explanation.
Bleeding
A certain amount of bleeding is to be expected following surgery. Slight bleeding, oozing, or redness in the saliva is not uncommon. Excessive bleeding may be controlled by first rinsing or wiping any old clots from your mouth, then placing a gauze pad over the area and biting firmly for one hour. Repeat if necessary. If bleeding continues, bite on a moistened black tea bag for 60 minutes. The tannic acid in the tea bag helps to form a clot by contracting blood vessels. To minimize further bleeding, do not become excited, sit upright, and avoid exercise. If bleeding does not subside, call for further instructions. Keep head elevated.
Swelling
The swelling that is normally expected is usually proportional to the surgery involved. Swelling around the mouth, cheeks, eyes and sides of the face is not uncommon. This is the body’s normal reaction to surgery and eventual repair. The swelling will not become apparent until the day following surgery and will not reach its maximum until 2-3 days post-operatively. However, the swelling may be minimized by the immediate use of ice packs. Two baggies filled with ice, or ice packs should be applied to the sides of the face where surgery was performed. The ice packs should be left on continuously while you are awake for the first 48 hours. If swelling or jaw stiffness has persisted for several days, there is no cause for alarm. This is a normal reaction to surgery. Thirty-six hours following surgery, the application of moist heat to the sides of the face is beneficial in reducing the size of the swelling and may be applied 20 minutes on and 20 minutes off.
Smoking
Do not smoke for at least 48 hours following surgery.
Pain
You should begin taking pain medication as soon as you can following the surgery before the local anesthetic wears off. Pain medication should be taken on a full stomach. For moderate pain, 3-4 tablets of Ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin) may be taken every 4 hours as needed for pain. Ibuprofen comes over the counter in 200mg tablets. The maximum dosage is 3200mg in a 24 hour period. You may also take 1-2 tablets of Tylenol or Extra Strength Tylenol every 4 hours. The maximum dosage is 4000mg in a 24 hour period. You may not take over the counter Tylenol products if you are also taking a prescription medication that contains Tylenol (Acetaminophen) such as Hydrocodone (Vicodin, Lortab) or Oxycodone (Percocet). You may take Ibuprofen in conjunction with Vicodin if needed.
For severe pain, take the tablets prescribed as directed. The prescribed pain medicine will make you groggy and will slow down your reflexes. Do not drive an automobile or work around machinery. Avoid alcoholic beverages. Pain or discomfort following surgery should subside more and more every day. If pain persists, it may require attention and you should call the office.
Diet
After general anesthetic or I.V. sedation, liquids should be initially taken. Do not use straws. Drink from a glass. The sucking motion can cause more bleeding by dislodging the blood clot. You may eat anything soft by chewing away from the surgical sites. High calorie, high protein intake is very important. Nourishment should be taken regularly. You should prevent dehydration by taking fluids regularly. Your food intake will be limited for the first few days. You should compensate for this by increasing your fluid intake. At least 5-6 glasses of liquid should be taken daily. Try not to miss a single meal. You will feel better, have more strength, less discomfort and heal faster if you continue to eat. Caution: If you suddenly sit up or stand from a lying position you may become dizzy. If you are lying down following surgery, make sure you sit for one minute before standing.
Keep The Mouth Clean
No rinsing of any kind should be performed until the day following surgery. You can brush your teeth the night of surgery but rinse gently. The day after surgery you should begin rinsing at least 5-6 times a day especially after eating with a cup of warm water mixed with a teaspoon of salt. Also rinse with Listerine twice a day, use one part Listerine with four parts water.
Discoloration
In some cases, discoloration of the skin follows swelling. The development of black, blue, green, or yellow discoloration is due to blood spreading beneath the tissues. This is a normal post-operative occurrence, which may occur 2-3 days post-operatively. Moist heat applied to the area may speed up the removal of the discoloration.
Antibiotics
If you have been placed on antibiotics, take the tablets or liquid as directed. Discontinue antibiotic use in the event of a rash or other unfavorable reaction. Call the office if you have any questions.
Nausea and Vomiting
This may be caused by swallowing blood or taking pain pills on an empty stomach. For relief, Coke, ginger ale, 7-UP, etc. may be sipped slowly every hour for 6 hours. If these are tolerated, tea, clear soup, crackers or bland foods may then be taken. If nausea persists discontinue the pain medication prescribed and substitute plain Tylenol or Aspirin. Also avoid taking medication without having some food in your stomach.
Other Complications
If numbness of the lip, chin, or tongue occurs there is no cause for alarm. As stated before surgery, this is usually temporary in nature. You should be aware that if your lip or tongue is numb, you could bite it and not feel the sensation. So be careful. Call Dr. Leonard W. Peterson if you have any questions.
Slight elevation of temperature immediately following surgery is not uncommon. If the temperature persists, notify the office. Tylenol or ibuprofen should be taken to reduce the fever.
You should be careful going from the lying down position to standing. You were not able to eat or drink prior to surgery. It was also difficult to take fluids. Taking pain medications can make you dizzy. You could get light headed when you stand up suddenly. Before standing up, you should sit for one minute then get up.
Occasionally, patients may feel hard projections in the mouth with their tongue. They are not roots; they are the bony walls which supported the tooth. These projections usually smooth out spontaneously. If not, they can be removed by Dr. Leonard W. Peterson.
If the corners of your mouth are stretched, they may dry out and crack. Your lips should be kept moist with an ointment such as Vaseline. • Sore throats and pain when swallowing are not uncommon. The muscles get swollen. The normal act of swallowing can then become painful. This will subside in 2-3 days.
Stiffness (Trimus) of the jaw muscles may cause difficulty in opening your mouth for a few days following surgery. This is a normal post-operative event which will resolve in time.
Finally
Dissolvable sutures are placed in the area of surgery to minimize post-operative bleeding and to help healing. Sometimes they become dislodged; this is no cause for alarm. Just remove the suture form your mouth and discard it. As the swelling goes down you may feel the sutures, a common concern is “My cheek is sutured to my teeth and gums”. This is not true.
The pain and swelling should subside more and more each day following surgery. If your post-operative pain or swelling worsens or unusual symptoms occur call my office for instructions. There will be an opening where the tooth was removed. The opening will gradually over the next month fill in with the new tissue. In the mean time, the area should be kept clean especially after meals with salt water rinses or a toothbrush.
Your case is individual, no two mouths are alike. Do not accept well intended advice from friends. Discuss your problem with the persons best able to effectively help you: Dr. Peterson or your family dentist.
Brushing your teeth is okay – just be gentle at the surgical sites.
A dry socket is when the blood clot gets dislodged prematurely from the tooth socket. Symptoms of increasing pain at the surgical site and even pain to the ear may occur 4-7 days following surgery. Call the office if this occurs.
If you are involved in regular exercise, be aware that your normal nourishment intake is reduced. Exercise may weaken you. If you get light headed, stop exercising.
Surgical Instructions
Before Anesthesia
After Placement of Dental Implants
Wisdom Teeth Removal
Exposure of an Impacted Tooth
Extractions
Multiple Extractions
Sinus Lift Instructions
Patient Registration
You may preregister with our office by filling out our secure online Patient Registration Form.
Learn More about Patient Registration
Peterson Oral Surgery
10430 South DeAnza Boulevard, Suite 140
Cupertino, CA 95014
Phone: 408-873-8484
Fax: 408-873-8459
Home
Patient Information
Advanced Technologies
Procedures
Meet Us
Surgical Instructions
Referring Doctors
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Peterson Oral Surgery • Address: 10430 South DeAnza Boulevard, Suite 140 Cupertino CA 95014 • Phone: Cupertino Office Phone Number 408-873-8484 • Fax: 408-873-8459
Cupertino CA • San Jose CA • Santa Clara CA • Sunnyvale CA • Campbell CA
Saratoga CA • Los Gatos CA • Mountain View CA • Los Altos CA • Palo Alto CA
Oral Surgery Website Design by PBHS © 2019
Scroll to Top