Cardiology Center of Excellence | Amber Pharmacy
Patient Portal
Blog
About
Who We Are
Community
Accreditations
Customer Satisfaction
Meet the team
Careers
Contact
Locations
English
Patients
Healthcare Team
Patient FAQs
Understanding Finances
Patient Information Checklist
Patient Portal
Providers
Services Overview
Infusion Services
Referral Forms
Payers
Pharma
Infusion
Centers of Excellence
Asthma
Cardiology
Dermatology
Gastroenterology
Hepatitis
HIV
Neurology
Oncology
Rare Diseases
Rheumatology
RSV
Transplant
CARDIOLOGY
Amber Pharmacy’s Cardiology Center of Excellence offers personalized patient care, access to needed medications and the clinical support necessary to promote medication adherence and compliance. Patients with cardiac conditions are assigned a healthcare team. This team has extensive experience helping patients with cardiac conditions and provides support for the clinical, physical, financial, educational and emotional needs of patients and their caregivers.
100
%
patient satisfaction with pharmacy employees
We supported over
20,000
patients in 2018
Over
300
years combined clinical experience
Amber Pharmacy is Here to Help
The challenges associated with high cholesterol can be difficult for patients to manage. Our team is here to serve as your advocate. Amber Pharmacy’s enrollment and benefit coordinators will help you with your insurance coverage and will work with you to find the best way to pay for your medication. Personal care coordinators will remind you when it’s time to refill your medication so you receive the most effective treatment possible. At Amber Pharmacy, we’re always here to help.
“It’s so rewarding when our clinical counseling helps answer patient questions and improves medication adherence. It makes such an incredible impact on patients’ health outcomes and encourages them to live heart-healthy lifestyles.”
— Esosa Oni, Pharm.D., BCPS
Amber Pharmacy Clinical Pharmacist
Frequently Asked Questions about High Cholesterol
What is cholesterol?
Cholesterol is a waxy substance found in all of the cells of your body and in certain foods. Your body needs some cholesterol to function and makes all of the cholesterol it needs. When you eat a lot of foods that contain cholesterol, you can end up with too much in your bloodstream. Cholesterol is found in meat, poultry and full-fat dairy products. If you eat too much cholesterol it can build up, eventually causing plaque to form in your arteries (the blood vessels that carry blood from your heart to the rest of your body). Plaque can narrow your arteries and make it harder for your heart to circulate blood throughout your body.
Why should I worry about cholesterol?
Plaque is bad because it can build up or break off and partially or completely block blood flow. If blood flow is blocked in an artery that feeds the brain, it causes a stroke. If blood flow is blocked an artery that feeds the heart, it causes a heart attack. People with high cholesterol have twice the risk for heart disease compared to people with a normal level.
People with high cholesterol often feel no symptoms. That’s why it’s important to have your cholesterol checked often by your doctor.
How much cholesterol is too much?
A good total cholesterol number is less than 200. Anything 240 or above is considered high. People with additional risk factors for heart disease or who have already experienced a serious event related to high cholesterol may have an even lower goal for their cholesterol. Talk to your doctor to see what a good cholesterol goal is for you. Having a healthy cholesterol lowers your chances of getting heart disease or having a stroke. You should have your cholesterol checked yearly or more frequently if your cholesterol numbers aren’t well controlled. This is done by a simple blood test. If you know you have high cholesterol, you should test more often.
What causes high cholesterol?
Your cholesterol can be high due to multiple reasons. High cholesterol can run in families. Your age can also affect your cholesterol level. Diet is another factor that causes high cholesterol. Cholesterol is found in meat, poultry and full-fat dairy foods. Saturated and trans fats also raise your cholesterol level. If you take medication for your cholesterol, you should still eat a healthy diet.
Being overweight and not exercising can raise your cholesterol. People who exercise and aren’t overweight can still have high cholesterol. That’s why it’s important to have yours checked even if you have a healthy weight.
How can I lower my cholesterol?
Eating a heart-healthy diet can lower your cholesterol. This includes eating fruits, vegetables, whole grains, low-fat dairy products, poultry, fish and nuts. You should also limit red meat and sugary foods and drinks. If diet and exercise don’t lower your cholesterol enough, your doctor may have you take medication.
Quitting smoking can also help improve your cholesterol. Exercise is also another good way to lower your cholesterol. Doing 30 minutes of aerobic exercise five times a week can help lower your cholesterol. This includes activities like brisk walking, swimming, bicycling or dancing.
High Cholesterol Resources
The American
Heart Association
Cardio Smart
Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention
Heart 360
American Stroke
Association
National Institute of Health
Refer a patient
We understand that the treatment of high cholesterol involves much more than simply dispensing medication. In all that we do we provide respectful, reliable, patient-centered care.
REFERRAL FORMS
Get in touch with us
Amber Pharmacy is here to help with any inquiries. Visit our contact page to send us an email or give us a call.
CONTACT OUR TEAM
Terms of Use
HIPAA
Blog
About
Careers
Locations
Contact
©2019 Amber Pharmacy is an operating division of Amber Enterprises, Inc.