Premium Certified™ | Green Coffee Premium
Phone: 888-893-1413
LANGUAGE
ENGLISH
ESPANOL
ABOUT US
FAQS
CONTACT US
YOUR CART
Premium ingredients backed by clinical studies.
Dosage and purity based on actual clinical data.
No questions asked, 90 day money back guarantee.
≡
✆
ORDER NOW!
Home
x
Products
Why Go Premium?
Clinical Studies
About Premium Certified
FAQs
Contact Premium Certified
Order Forskolin Premium™ Risk-Free For 90 days!
"Green Coffee Premium™ is the real deal. It helped me lose more weight* than anything else I tried!"
- Herb T.
100% Pure Green Coffee Bean Extract with 50% Chlorogenic Acid
50% Chlorogenic Acid Look for 50% Chlorogenic Acid when buying green coffee bean. 50% chlorogenic acid and is the green coffee extract found in the clinical trial where participants lost over 17 lbs while on Green Coffee Bean Extract.
Read about the Clinical Study done on Green Coffee.*
We're so confident that Green Coffee™ will work for you that we are offering a 90 day Money Back Guarantee! So, feel confident that it will work for you*, or your money back!
Why Green Coffee Premium
About Green Coffee
Clinical Study
FAQs
Order Now
How Can You Avoid Bad Green Coffee Products?
And Choose One That Will Actually Work?
"Not	All Green Coffee Beans Are Created Equal."
Before you buy a Green Coffee product, it's important you know what you're buying. Fly-by-night supplement makers are rushing to create their own product and "cash-in" on this huge diet craze.
Beware, many of the supplements out there claim to have the best product, but most of them either don't have the right amount of chlorogenic acid or use the incorrect dose per bottle. And more importantly, most do not use the same green coffee extract found effective in clinical studies. (50% Chlorogenic Acid)
Weight loss results with green coffee beans are mainly dependent on the quality of the green coffee bean extract you buy. So before you buy, make sure the green coffee extract you choose meets all the criteria.
Why Is Green Coffee the Hottest Diet Today?
Green Coffee became popular when the worlds most famous TV doctor called it "the magic weight loss cure for every body type" on his popular TV talk show. It's now the biggest diet craze in the country, and for good reason.
In a recent study published in the Diabetes, Metabolic Syndrome and Obesity journal, scientists used Green	Coffee Bean Extract with 50% Chlorogenic Acid to study its weight loss effects. What they found was that participants lost an average of 17 pounds each and 16% body fat after taking the supplement. That is a huge achievement. You can see the full clinical study by Clicking here.
It's important to note that it was in fact Green	Coffee Bean Extract with 50% Chlorogenic Acid that was used in the study. Not Svetol or a cheaper imported extract. Chlorogenic Acid, is the key to weight loss in green coffee, and other products only contain between 20-45%.
*Results of this study may not be an implication of future results.
Don't Get Fooled When Buying Green Coffee!
Here's what to watch out for when buying a Green Coffee Bean Extract. We'll start with what the doctor recommends. He gives very specific criteria on what to look for.
Here are the doctor's criteria:
It must contain 50% Chlorogenic Acid and be on the label.
It must have no fillers, binders or any other extra ingredients.
It must be 100% pure and in a vegetarian capsule.
And he recommends taking 1600mg a day (800mg capsules, 2 times a day).
So, check the label to make sure it meets all of these criteria. If it doesn't, don't buy it!
(click here to see our label)
Apart from what he recommends, here are other factors you want to look out for:
Look out for false claims and unsupported facts.
Make sure the supplement is made in an FDA registered laboratory.
Make sure the manufacturing facility is cGMP certified.
And finally, make sure it complies with the US Pharmacopeia's quality standards.
What About Green Coffee Premium™?
Does it Meet all of the above Criteria?
Green Coffee Premium™ was created to meet the growing demands of consumers for a high quality, premium green coffee supplement at the best price possible.
We developed Green Coffee Premium™ with all of the world's most famous TV doctor's criteria in mind and made sure to give you the highest quality product you would expect from a premium product.
At Green Coffee Premium™, we never use false claims or misrepresent the facts. We tell you about what's out there, what's working and why. We only quote from real clinical studies. And we will never put you on an auto-ship program. We don't believe in them. You will be billed one time and that's it.
So, What Sets Green Coffee Premium™ Apart From All Other Products?
Green Coffee Premium™ uses 50% Chlorogenic Acid
Green Coffee Premium™ is 100% pure with no added ingredients, fillers or binders and only in a vegetarian capsule.
Green Coffee Premium™ has the recommended daily dose of 1600mgs (800mg capsules taken 2 times a day)
It has 60 capsules per bottle. (that's a full month's supply) not 30 capsules.
Green Coffee Premium™ is manufactured in an FDA registered lab that is cGMP certified.
And it complies with the US Pharmacopeia's quality standards for quality and purity.
Green Coffee Premium™ is the highest quality green coffee product available on the market. If you're serious about losing weight, then don't settle for cheap imitations. Green Coffee Premium™ is your best choice if you want to lose weight and it comes with a 100% money back guarantee because we are confident that you will lose weight or your money back!
What is Green Coffee & How Does it Work?
Only a Premium Green Coffee Will Help You Lose Weight*
OK, first things first - It's important to understand that not all Green Coffee Bean Extracts are created equal. Only high quality green coffee beans are going to get you the weight loss results you are looking for.* And to be more specific, we highly recommend green coffee with 50% Chlorogenic Acid.
Why 50% Chlorogenic Acid? Because it is the green coffee bean extract that was used in the clinical study mentioned on the world famous TV doctor's show and found in the Diabetes, Metabolic Syndrome and Obesity journal, where participants lost an average of 17 pounds each and 16% body fat.*
Assuming that we're talking about a high quality green coffee supplement, what is it and how does it work? Green coffee beans are unroasted coffee beans that contain a very important active compound called Chlorogenic Acid.
What is the Key to Losing Weight in Green Coffee?*
Chlorogenic Acid is the key to weight loss and is found in abundance inside a premium green coffee bean extract like Green Coffee Premium™.
Chlorogenic Acid has the powerful action of inhibiting the release of glucose in the body while increasing liver metabolism or fat burning in the liver. These two actions combined work together to inhibit the absorption of fat and stop weight gain.*
Green Coffee Helps Our Body Burn Fat*
Most people eat more glucose than any other food group. Eating glucose is unavoidable. But when we eat too much our body has nowhere to store it, so it converts it into fat and stored as adipose tissue which we know to be body fat. Excess glucose leads to a protruding belly, fat around the hips, thighs and butt and cellulite buildup where the fat is stored.*
So, what we need to do to stop thee fat buildup is one of two things. We can try to stop our bodies from converting glucose to fat or we can try to burn and pump out fat that exists in our bodies. The amazing thing about Chlorogenic Acid that's found in Green Coffee is that it enables our bodies to do both of those things.*
You see, our liver is the most important fat burning organ in the body. If we're able to strengthen our liver, help it burn fat and pump fat away, we can essentially lose more weight. Chlorogenic Acid helps to increase our metabolism. By increasing our live metabolism, it essentially helps to keep weight under control.*
Green Coffee Stops the Body From Storing Fat*
In addition to burning fat and pumping it away, chlorogenic acid found in a premium green coffee extract also inhibits the release of glucose in the body. By inhibiting its release, chlorogenic acid stops the body from storing more body fat.*
So, to recap, a premium green coffee bean extract contains chlorogenic acid, which is the key to weight loss. Chlorogenic Acid helps with weight loss by stopping the release of glucose in the body, thus stopping it from creating body fat. And Chlorogenic Acid increases your liver metabolism which in turn burns fat and pumps it away.*
Green Coffee is the ultimate tool to help you lose weight. Its been all over the news for a reason. But make sure you only buy a premium Green Coffee bean extract that will actually help you to lose weight and not just some powder in a pill.
We'll Give You 90 Days Risk Free
Try our product for 90 days and if for any reason you are not 100% satisfied, simply return the opened and unopened containers within 90 days from the time of delivery for a full refund, excluding shipping charges.
We give you a full 90 days to try Premium Certified™
If you wish to take advantage of the price discount by ordering multiples, don't worry. Any unopened containers returned along with your opened containers within the 90 day guarantee period will also be eligible for a refund. Products returned for any reason before 90 days of use will be refunded, minus any shipping charges paid. How can we make this incredible guarantee? Because we KNOW that you will be satisfied with our product.
To request a refund you must obtain an RMA (Return Authorization) as stated in our Terms and Conditions. Please call or email us to acquire	an RMA.
Study: Participants Lost 17.5 lbs (16% body fat)
Summary of the Clinical Study
After being mentioned on the worlds most famous TV doctor's show, the sales of Green Coffee have gone through the roof. This is in part due to the clinical study that was mentioned on his show. To be clear, he does not endorse any specific green coffee bean extract, but this study was mentioned and he does give specific guidelines.
Green Coffee Bean Extracts have been all over the media and in published studies. The most famous clinical study, published in the Diabetes, Metabolic Syndrome and Obesity journal, uses green coffee bean extract with 50% Chlorogenic Acid.
Clinical Study Used Green Coffee Bean Extract with 50% Chlorogenic Acid
Participants were in their 20's, 30's and 40's and had a body mass index between 25kg/m^2 and 35kg/m^2. They were each specifically given green coffee bean extract 50% Chlorogenic Acid and strictly monitored for the duration of the study. For a full review of that clinical study please click here.
The participants ate about 2,400 calories a day and had a calorie expenditure of 400 calories a day. What that means is that they only burned up a small portion of their calorie intake. Usually this would result in a weight gain. In addition, the participants were told not to make any changes to their diet or daily exercise habits.
The Results of the Famous Clinical Study
At the end of the study there was significant weight loss. The participants in the study lost an average of 17.5 pounds each. That is significant on any level, but taking into account that they did not change their daily routines or their diet is extraordinary.
That means that on average the participants lost about 16% of their overall body fat and 10.5% of their body weight. For a full review of that clinical study please click here.
To be clear, this study was done specifically on green coffee bean extract 50% Chlorogenic Acid. So, if you're going to buy a green coffee extract, make sure it says 50% Chlorogenic Acid on the label!
Why is Green Coffee Premium the #1 Choice for Weight Loss?
What makes Green Coffee Premium™ the best green coffee bean extract on the market? Plain and simple, we meet all of the guidelines and exceed them... See checklist below:
Made with 50% Chlorogenic Acid.
Green Coffee Premium™ has 60 capsules per bottle
It contains the recommended dose of 1600mgs a day - 800mg capsules taken 2 times a day. (that's a full month's supply)
Green Coffee Premium™ is 100% pure with no added fillers or binders
Green Coffee Premium™ has no additional ingredients
Green Coffee Premium™ is made in a 100% vegetarian capsule.
It is manufactured in an FDA registered lab that is cGMP certified.
And complies with the US Pharmacopeia's quality standards for quality & purity.
There's No Comparison...
Green Coffee Premium™ is the highest quality green coffee product available on the market. If you're serious about losing weight, don't settle for cheap imitations. Green Coffee Premium™ is your best choice if you want to lose weight and it comes with a 100% money back guarantee because we are confident that you will lose weight or your money back!
Tell Us About Your Success
We Love to hear from people who Lost Weight with Green Coffee Premium™
We're proud of Green Coffee Premium™ and believe it is the most effective green coffee bean extract available. And we are so happy that so many of our customers agree with us! So, if you lost weight using Green Coffee Premium™, tell us about it! We would love to hear from you!
If you would like to leave us a message or ask a question, just click here to contact customer support.
And if you have any other questions, please feel free to ask. We're here to help you!
Please Fill Out the Contact Form Below:
-- Please Select a Subject -- I have a question about how to order Green Coffee Premium. I have a question about Green Coffee Premium. What is the status of my order for Green Coffee Premium. I would like more information on Green Coffee Premium. I would like to tell you about my results with Green Coffee Premium. I need to update my shipping information for Green Coffee Premium. I wish to return or cancel my order of Green Coffee Premium. I want wholesale/reseller information regarding Green Coffee Premium.
Submit
Answers To Your Frequently Asked Questions
About Green Coffee Premium™
Please click on a question below to view the answer.
1. Why Choose Green Coffee Premium™?
Green Coffee Premium™ is the premium brand for green coffee. We keep everything transparent and don't hide behind our label or our website. Plain and simple, we provide the best green coffee bean extract at the best prices. We never use false claims and will never bill your credit card for anything you didn't order - no auto-shipping!
Green Coffee Premium™ was made to meet all of America's most famous doctor's criteria and go above and beyond them to make sure you get the absolute best green coffee product.
Made with 50% Chlorogenic Acid.
Green Coffee Premium™ has 60 capsules per bottle
It contains the recommended dose of 1600mgs a day - 800mg capsules taken 2 times a day. (that's a full month's supply)
Green Coffee Premium™ is 100% pure with no added fillers or binders
Green Coffee Premium™ has no additional ingredients
Green Coffee Premium™ is made in a 100% vegetarian capsule.
It is manufactured in an FDA registered lab that is cGMP certified.
And complies with the US Pharmacopeia's quality standards for quality & purity.
Green Coffee Premium™ is the highest quality green coffee product available on the market. If you're serious about losing weight, don't settle for cheap imitations. Green Coffee premium is your best choice if you want to lose weight and it comes with a 100% money back guarantee because we are confident that you will lose weight or your money back!
2. How does it work?
Green coffee beans are unroasted coffee beans that contain a very important active compound called Chlorogenic Acid. Chlorogenic Acid is the key to weight loss and is found in abundance inside a premium green coffee bean extract like Green Coffee Premium™.
Chlorogenic Acid has the powerful action of inhibiting the release of glucose in the body while increasing liver metabolism or fat burning in the liver. These two actions combined work together to inhibit the absorption of fat and stop weight gain.
For detailed information, please click here to go to our description page.
3. How quickly should I expect to see results?
It varies with each person. For some it can take as little as one week, while other it may take up to one month to see results.
4. What's the recommended dose?
It is recommended that you take 1600mgs a day - 800mgs two times a day with a glass of water, 30 minutes before a meal. Each bottle of Green Coffee Premium™ is a full one month supply by offering 60 capsules of 800mgs each.
5. Can I see the Label of Green Coffee Premium™?
Of course! Please click here to see our label.
6. What are all the Ingredients and what else is inside each capsule?
Green Coffee Premium™ only has 100% green coffee bean extract with 50% Chlorogenic Acid which is the same extract that America's most famous doctor recommends and the one found in the clinical study where participants lost an average of 17.5 lbs and 16% body fat.
Green Coffee Premium™ has no added fillers, binders or added ingredients. Every capsule is encapsulated in a vegetarian capsule.
Each bottle of Green Coffee Premium™ is a full one month supply by offering 60 capsules of 800mgs each taken three times a day before meals. (1600mg a day)
7. Are there side effects associate with taking Green Coffee Premium™?
There are no side effects to taking a green coffee supplement. That said, there is a small amount of caffeine in the product - about 20% of a cup of coffee. You also want to make sure you do not exceed the recommended dose.
8. Will Green Coffee Premium™ really help me lose weight?
While every person is different, clinical studies have shown the effectiveness of green coffee bean extract on losing weight. But results will vary per person.
9. Can I take Green Coffee Premium™ if I'm on other medications?
Green Coffee Premium™ uses only the highest quality green coffee bean extract. There are no known interactions with any medications, but that said, we recommend that you consult with your primary care physician if you have any concerns.
10. Where can I buy Green Coffee Premium™?
Green Coffee Premium™ is only available online. You can order Green Coffee Premium™ from our order page by clicking here.
11. When will Green Coffee Premium™ be shipped out?
All orders of Green Coffee Premium™ are shipped out within 24 hours unless it is a postal holiday or the weekend (after 10am on Friday).
12. Is it safe to order Green Coffee Premium™ online?
Yes, we use a strong secure data encrypted connection to ensure that your orders are processed safely.
13. How do I contact customer support?
Please go to our customer support page with any questions by clicking here. Our representatives will be happy to assist you.
14. Do you ship discreetly?
Yes! We always ship in discreet, plain package - nobody will know the contents.
Choose Your Green Coffee Savings Package!
You can save Over $200 with our different packages!
Green Coffee Premium™ was designed to help you lose weight with the best quality green coffee bean extract available. We are providing a 90 day 100% money back guarantee, so you can feel confident that Green Coffee Premium™ will work for you.
To help you lose weight we have several different savings packages to offer. We recommend trying Green Coffee Premium™ for 6 months. For a limited time, enjoy our special "buy 3 get 3 free" offer on our top seller, and take advantage of our ultimate weight loss solution!
Buy 3 Months and Get 3 FREE Bottles
You Save
$270
6 Month Supply
You Save $270
select
Best Selling Package
6 Bottle Plan
$23/Each
Only $138
Buy 2 Months and Get 2 FREE Bottles
You Save
$160
4 Month Supply
You Save $160
select
Moderate Package
4 Bottle Plan
$28/Each
Only $112
Only $109.95
Buy 2 Months and Get 1 FREE Bottle
You Save
$113
3 Month Supply
You Save $113
select
Beginner's Package
3 Bottle Plan
$30/Each
Only $91
Only $89.95
Buy 1 Month Supply
You Save
$20
1 Month Supply
You Save $20
select
Sampler's Package
1 Bottle Plan
$48
Home
Products
Why Go Certified?
Clinical Studies
About Premium Certified
FAQs
Contact Us
* Results will always vary for individuals, depending on the individual’s physical condition, lifestyle, and diet. Testimonials and results contained within may not be an implication of future results. Always consult with your physician before making any dietary changes or starting any nutritional, health control or exercise program. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. The information in this website is not intended as a substitute for medical advice.
* These trademarks, service marks, logos (including, without limitation, the individual names of products and retailers) are the property of their respective owners and have not endorsed these advertisements/products.
Terms & ConditionsPrivacy Policy
Copyright © 2019, Premium Certified™
All Rights Reserved.