Supplements For Knee Cartilage Repair - Chronic Pain Scotland
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Home
Reviews
Learn
Pets
Contact
Chronic Pain Scotland
Understanding Pain Management
Advertising Disclosure
The material on our site is presented as overview versus comparitive marketing. We provide detailed info related to joint pain products, overviews, specifications, and buying guides.
Our table at the footer of this page does not include all supplement companies nor all available products on the market but those we promote as their affiliates. In compliance with FTC guidelines, please assume all links on the table are affiliate links. We may receive a commission if you click and make a purchase.
Our website contains affiliate links from which we receive a commission when you purchase products through them. Learn more here. Thank you for your support.
Close
Advertising Disclosure
You are here: Home / Learn / Supplements For Knee Cartilage Repair
Supplements For Knee Cartilage Repair
February 8, 2019 By Editor
When the knee cartilage is injured or is worn out as a result of aging, the most problematic effect presents itself in terms of pain, discomfort, stiffness, and mobility issues, among other symptoms of damaged cartilage. When this gets severe, one can totally be unable to accomplish certain of their everyday activities or enjoy life to the fullest.
There’s a myriad of things that could cause knee cartilage damages, including, previous knee injuries, the everyday wear and tear processes. While there are several forms of treatment, including medication and surgery, an absolute cure is never certain. For this and other reasons, most surfers of knee pain and related joint conditions prefer using natural dietary supplements to address their issues.
There are various supplements that would help repair the knee cartilage and alleviate all the pain and discomfort in your knees. But before we get to it, how do knee cartilage repair supplements help in reducing knee discomforts: in a nutshell, here are some quick pointers on what these supplements seek to do.
They provide the important building blocks for repairing the knee cartilages, tendons and ligaments.
They help in repairing the damaged tissues around the knees and thus providing the much needed cushioning
The aid in joint lubrication through enhancing the production of the synovial fluid.
They also provide the enzymes involved in the production and repair of the worn-out cartilage.
These supplements also help in reducing inflammation.
Through their analgesic effects, these supplements help in reducing and alleviating pain.
With this in mind, here are some notable types of supplements for knee cartilage repair.
Plant Extract Supplements
These contain a wide variety of compounds, all working in different ways to provide benefits that most prescribed painkillers and medication would. As you can tell from the name, these are made using active ingredients that are naturally sourced from plants.
Some of the most common ingredients of this nature include eucalyptus, aloe, boswellia, ginger, and green, tea, just to name a few. Studies have also shown cutch tree extract to be highly effective in joint pain reduction and cartilage repair.
Glucosamine and Chondroitin Supplements
These are two compounds naturally produced in huge amounts in the body. The deficiency of these two compounds may cause unforeseeable wear and tear of the knee cartilage, tendons, ligaments, and the synovial fluid. As we age, the production of these two compounds decreases.
But then again, these two are the building blocks involved in the synthesis of proteoglycan, a complex “protein-carbohydrate-hydroxyl” that makes up the cartilage. If these two compounds are lurking or are in short supply, knee cartilage health will be affected. Fortunately, there are some nutritional supplements that include glucosamine and chondroitin as their active ingredients to improve cartilage and joint health. Here’s what they do in a nutshell.
Prevention – taking glucosamine supplements will help in the preservation of knee cartilage by reducing the knee cartilage breakdown and aiding the production of collagen. Remember, collagen is the fundamental restorative element of the cartilage tissues.
Healing – if you happen to be involved in sporting activities, then you may be at risk of athletic injuries. Taking both glucosamine and chondroitin supplements can help improve your knee health and reduce your recovery time from knee injuries.
Relief – if you happen to be suffering from osteoarthritis, then it’s most likely that you are undergoing a lot of pain. Glucosamine and chondroitin supplements can be helpful in alleviating the pain and related osteoarthritis symptoms. These two compounds help in reducing joint space narrowing an indicative factor in osteoarthritis.
Collagen Supplements
While both glucosamine and chondroitin supplements help in improving flexibility and knee resilience, Type II Collagen helps to strengthen the knee cartilage. Collagen is a fibrous protein that is composed of long chains of amino acids. They are therefore important in the formation of the triple collagen strands, important in strengthening the knee cartilage.
The collagen supplements help to stimulate the production and synthesis of collagen, which helps boost knee joint support, thus reducing joint discomforts and aches. Taking this supplement can be helpful in reducing joint inflammation, stiffness, and pain.
Vitamin C Supplements
Some of the best cartilage repair vitamins include vitamin C, Vitamin A, vitamin D, and vitamin K. These are mostly water-soluble vitamins that are found in fruits and vegetables. For individuals suffering from knee pain or cartilage damage, however, Vitamin C supplements are the most popular. Here are some pointers briefly outlining how vitamin supplements work.
How They Work
They help in the synthesis of collagen, converting the hydroxyproline, proline, and amino acids to become healthy strong strands in the formation of healthy cartilage.
They are also important in the prevention of the most common knee ailments such as osteoarthritis.
Vitamin C also helps in stimulating the bone-building cells and thus improving bone density and for support.
Vitamin C is one of the other effective vitamins that help to enhance the effectiveness of glucosamine and chondroitin compounds. The deficiency of Vitamin C may reduce the effectiveness of these two compounds in combating knee cartilage damages.
Turmeric Supplements
This is one of the most familiar spices well known to most of us. It’s a yellow spice commonly used to enhance food flavors. Turmeric contains many Ayurveda properties, such that some people like to call it the “The Golden Goddess”. Many studies have found it to be particularly effective in treating joint inflammation and pain.
The yellow pigment in turmeric is what contains curcumin, which is one of the most powerful anti-inflammatory agents in joint supplements. Curcumin interacts with the immune system and strengthens it to fight against the effects of knee inflammation as well as in the other joints. Even though more research may still be needed on its efficacy, previous studies have shown that curcumin has been shown to be very promising in the treatment of osteoarthritis.
Omega-3 Supplements
The benefits of Omega-3s are endless and there are so many sources of nutritional omega 3, including fatty fish such as sardines and mackerel, and tuna, as well as avocados, nuts, and certain seeds. Taking omega 3 supplements will help improve on the overall joint health as well as that of the knees. Among the omega 3 sources is Krill oil. Krill oil supplements have shown significant improvements in joint related ailments. They help to provide the lubrication needed in the knee cartilages and thus helping to improve on stiffness and pain.
Investing in any of the above supplements will by far help to improve on knee joint cartilages as well as for the rest of the joints. It’s imperative to always consider the ingredients in use before choosing just any supplement. Most importantly check with your physician when it comes to the proper health of your joints.
Recommended Content
Alternative Pain Management Techniques Pain is a burning or aching sensation that almost everyone has experienced at some point. Even though there are more than just a few sources of pain, ...
Supplements For Joints and Ligaments Joints are among the most important parts of the human or animal body. They facilitate both locomotion and movement, what we often call mobility. Faci...
Can Allergies Cause Muscle Ache? Allergic reactions are a common occurrence and in most cases, their severity and effects differ from one person to the other. All this has to do with ...
Filed Under: Learn
Primary Sidebar
Footer
Legal Disclaimer
Consult your physician or other health care professional before starting this or any other supplement program. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. The products detailed on this site are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. We do not intend to provide veterinary advice nor are we a substitute for veterinary guidance. The content on this site is for information purposes only.
This site contains affiliate links to 3rd party sites where we receive a commission when a purchase is made (Affiliate Disclosure). This site contains advertisements.
Use of this website constitutes your agreement to its published terms of use and site policies. All trademarks, logos, brand names, and service marks displayed on this site are registered or unregistered property of their respective mark holders.
Recent Posts
Curcumin 2000 Review
Joint Advance Review
ProJoint Plus Review
Turmeric Curcumin Plus Review
Turmeric & Ginger Review
Search the site ...
Terms of Use
Privacy & Cookie Policies
This website is not affiliated with NHS
© 2019 Sumo Media. All rights reserved.