Study: Chewing gum while you exercise can help you lose weight | CW39 Houston
GoSearch
CW39 TV Schedule Watch CW Shows Autos
Search
Contact Us
CW39 Houston
Menu
Morning Dose
Ask Dr. Liz
Class Acts
News
Rescan your TV
Contests
Team
Weather 57°
57°
Low 65°
High 83°
Mon
68° 79°
Tue
67° 80°
Wed
68° 80°
See complete forecast
Severe weather alert
Study: Chewing gum while you exercise can help you lose weight
Posted 5:51 PM, May 30, 2018, by Jerome Bailey Jr.
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Reddit
LinkedIn
Email
This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.
Please enable Javascript to watch this video
HOUSTON — The sun is out, and folks wanna lose the pounds! But what if you were already "chewing" on a solution and didn't know it?
A new study from the Journal of Physical Therapy Science says chewing gum while working out can help you lose weight! Researchers found exercisers expend extra energy if they chew gum while walking— especially older men. The study also says chewing gum stimulates circulation and helps to cope with stress.
Filed in: Nation/World, NewsFix
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Reddit
LinkedIn
Email
Class Acts: Senior Alphonzo Ward has a heart for healing Earth’s creatures
Click here to vote for our latest Class Acts student.
Popular
Thousands of students come to Houston for robotics competition with over $80 million in scholarships
Class Acts: Senior Alphonzo Ward has a heart for helping animals
Judge reopens case of 11-year-old girl facing deportation to El Salvador
OMG Seafood among dozens of eateries featured during Houston’s Black Restaurant Week
Latest News
Congressman Al Green makes third cry for Trump’s impeachment after Mueller report
Gangstagrass, band fusing unique sound of bluegrass and hip-hop, performs on Morning Dose
Thousands of students come to Houston for robotics competition with over $80 million in scholarships
Houston’s Poppin’ Off gourmet popcorn to open first-ever store front
Fitness Friday Morning Dose
Local man cuts body weight in half with Zumba after doctors say he wouldn’t survive past age 30
Nation/World
12-year-old girl diagnosed with leukemia while mother is deployed overseas
Health Nation/World Technology
Bored with exercise? Virtual reality, immersive fitness might help
Nation/World
Colorado store that ditched Nike over Kaepernick ad goes out of business
Nation/World
How likely are you live to 90? Depends on your gender and body size
Nation/World
Dog survives 96 days in wilderness before being reunited with owner
Nation/World
Man sues Gwyneth Paltrow, says ski accident left him seriously injured
Nation/World
Broken lamp leads to California student jailed in Tokyo for nearly 9 months
Deep Dive Morning Dose
Study suggests traffic is bad for your health! Is your commute calming…or is it killing you?
Nation/World
Homeless man gets AFC Championship tickets after helping Chiefs player who got stuck in snow driving to playoff game
Nation/World
Homeless man gets AFC Championship tickets after helping Chiefs player who got stuck in snow driving to playoff game
Class Acts
Class Acts: Senior Zack Steward marching to the beat of his own drum— and it’s a rhythm of positivity!
Nation/World
Have New Year’s resolutions? Why doing these 3 things can make them stick
Mobile Apps
Android App
iPhone & iPad App
Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact
Untitled-2Covers
Online Public File	• Terms of Service • Privacy Policy
• 7700 Westpark Drive Houston, TX 77063
• Copyright © 2019, KIAH
• A Tribune Broadcasting Station • Powered by WordPress.com VIP
×
Email Alerts
Notice: you are using an outdated browser. Microsoft does not recommend using IE as your default browser. Some features on this website, like video and images, might not work properly. For the best experience, please upgrade your browser.
Read more ›
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.