LumiRisk - Zanolife
Cookies
This website uses 'cookies' to give you the best, most relevant experience.
Using this website means you're OK with this.
You can change which cookies are set at any time - and find out more about them in our cookie policy.
Cookies
Privacy Policy
Continue to use cookies
LumiRISK
by Lucence Diagnostics
Order now
Test for Your Risk
of Inherited Cancer
Germline (Inherited) Cancer Risk
Use DNA sequencing to shed light on hereditary gene mutations and help individuals take precautionary steps to manage their risk or developing cancer in the future.
Assess lifetime risk across multiple cancer types
LumiRISKTM is a multi-cancer test that detects 28 genes commonly associated with increased risk of cancer.
As a single mutant gene affects the risk of cancer in several organs, LumiRISK™‘s comprehensive coverage of 28 genes helps to identify an individual’s risks of developing cancer across multiple organs in one blood test.
Read More
What is Risk Assessment?
Cancer risk assessment identifies individuals with a higher-than-average risk of developing cancer due to their genes inherited through their family.。
With a better understanding of their genetic or inherited risk of cancer, the LumiRISK™ test helps individuals to understand whether they may benefit from additional / dedicated or better-tailored screening and preventive measures. Understand where you may be at risk or may be at a heightened risk.
Read More
How does LumiRISKTM test for multiple hereditary cancer risks with a single blood test?
LumiRISKTM tests for a panel of 28 genes through a standard blood sample.
Each gene in the panel is known to elevate the risk of developing one or more types of cancer in individual male and female. Hence, by covering a range of genes in one panel, Lucence Diagnostics are able to provide a multi-cancer risk assessment in one test.
Read more
Test Detail
Indication - Cancer Risk Assessment across:
Breast
Pancrea
Ovarian
Stomach &
Prostate
Colorectal
Others in a Single Test
Kidney
Sample Type:15 ml Blood Sample
LumiRISKTM + NPCGoldTM
Price: 20,300
LumiRISKTM
Price: $19,800
Order Now
Understanding the Risk of Cancer with the Family ?
Genes Sequenced
LumiRISKTMis a multi-cancer risk assessment test that detects mutations in a panel of 28 genes commonly associated with increased cancer risks.
Genes Sequenced
APC CDH1 MSH2 PTEN
ATM CDK4 MSH6 RAD51C
BMPR1A CDKN2A MUTYH RAD51D
BRCA1 CHEK2 NBN SMAD4
BRCA2 EPCAM PALB2 STK11
BRIP1 MLH1 PMS2 TP53
CDH1 HOXB13G84E PMS2 VHL
Having a gene mutation does not indicate the presence of cancer.
But it does mean you can do something about it.
LumiRiskTM Gene Table
The 28 Genes Selected for LumiRISKTM are:
Focus on hereditable cancers - that can be passed from parent to child.
Clinically significant based on studies.
Identified mutations will indicate higer cancer risks than general population.
LumiRISKTM
LumiRISK is not a test for the presence of cancer, but is a test to help understand if you have inherited a genetic mutation, which may increase your chances of developing cancer in your lifetime.
If your LumiRISK result comes back as showing that you have inherited a genetic mutation, the most important thing to remember is that this does not mean that you will definitely develop cancer in the future.
What it does mean, however, is that you have just given yourself the ability to work with a medical professional to develop a tailored screening programme with a dedicated focus on the risk that you have uncovered. By illuminating the risk, you give yourself the ability to develop a medical and screening strategy to combat the potential risk.
Are you concerned about the risk? of cancer in your family?
Have several of your close relatives have had cancer?
Has three been an uncommon cancer type in the family?
Have any of your relatives shared the same type of cancer, especially if first diagnosed at a young age?
More About Cancer & Genetic Testing
What Causes Cancer?
Cancer is caused by errors (called mutations) in our genes. Genes control how cell in our body divide and grow.
When a mutation occurs in these genes, our body cells work less well. As we age, or with unhealthy lifestyles, mutations occur more often and add up over time. As a result, some of our body cells may become cancer. That is why most cancers develop in older people.
Read More
What is inherited Cancer?
inherited cancers are cancers that run in the family. Such cancers occur when one gene mutation is passed from one genereation to another.
Having these mutations does not mean you will get cancer. However, they do increase the risk of cancer. This is one reason why cancer can occur ar a younger age or appear more often in some families. In inherited cancers, gene mutations can be passed down from either fathter, mother, or even both parents, Someone who is born with a gene mutation will have a higher cancer risk.
Read More
Am I at Risk fo Inherited Cancer?
Many people know of one or serveral relatives with cancer. Most of these are related to age or lifestyle facetors such as smoking.
However, if these relatives are young, or share the same cancer type, this could be a sign of inherited cancer. If you have such concerns, do consult your doctor. Such discussions would involve assessing your cancer risks and managing preventive risks for you and your family. Geetic testing can also help with risk evaluation if needed.
Read More
What signs should I look out for?
Below are some of the signs of inherted cancers:
Several of your close relatives have had cancer
An uncommon cancer type in the family
Relatives sharing the same type of cancer, especially if first diagnosed at a young age
What is genetic testing?
Genetic testing can assist doctors to estimate your lifetime risk for cancer. These tests are done by drawing a small amount of blood. The test analyses your genes to help:
Find out if you or your family are at increased risk of some types of?cancer.
Choose suitable ways to prevent and reduce cancers. This can be?done by determining risk, followed by appropriate cancer screening?or other medical methods.
Genetic testing can help doctors to give you a more accurate assessment. However, having risks for inherited cancer does not mean cancer.
For example, a woman with a 60% chance of developing cancer may remain free of cancer. Another woman with a lower 10% chance of developing breast cancer is still at risk, and may develop cancer.