Genes and cancer - Canadian Cancer Society
Donate now
Daffodil donations matched 1x!
DONATE
Français Quebec
Alberta and Northwest Territories
British Columbia and Yukon
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland and Labrador
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Cancer information
Loading...
Support & services
Loading...
Prevention & screening
Loading...
Get involved
Loading...
DONATE
Menu
Loading...
Links
You are here: Cancer information / Cancer 101 / What is cancer? / Genes and cancer
Select the text below and copy the link.
×
Recently viewed pages
Genes and cancer
Genes and cancer
What is cancer?
The human body
The immune system
The lymphatic system
The blood and bone marrow
The endocrine system and hormones
How cancer starts, grows and spreads
Types of tumours
Genes and cancer
Genetic changes and cancer risk
Cancer risk in families
Family cancer syndromes
Genetic testing
Using genes in cancer diagnosis, prognosis and treatment
Stage and grade
Staging
Grading
Prognosis and survival
Cancer Basics video series
Cancer statistics at a glance
Childhood cancer statistics
Canadian Cancer Statistics publication
Past editions
Infographics
Stats quiz
What causes cancer?
Cancer research
Prevention
Screening and finding cancer early
Diagnosis and prognosis
Surgery
Chemotherapy
Radiation therapy
Stem cell transplant
Targeted therapy
Immunotherapy
Hyperthermia treatments
Personalized medicine
Glossary
Previous Next
A-|A|A+
Genes and cancer
All cancers are caused by a change in genes or damage to genes. Genes are found in every cell in the body. Genes inside each cell tell it when to grow, work, divide and die. Genes are pieces of DNA found within chromosomes in all of our cells. When a gene changes or mutates (called a gene mutation), the instructions it gives to the cell can stop it from working properly. This can cause abnormal development in the body or a medical condition.
Genes act like on and off switches inside of our cells. They control how our cells work by making proteins, such as antibodies and enzymes, and messengers such as hormones. A gene’s proteins give the instructions to our cells that tell them when to grow, divide and die (a process called apoptosis). And each gene has instructions within its DNA that tells a cell how to make these proteins.
When genes work properly, they help protect us against cancer. But when there is a change in our DNA or damage to our DNA, a gene can mutate. A mutated gene doesn’t work properly because the instructions in its DNA get mixed up. This can cause cells that should be resting to divide and grow out of control, and this may lead to cancer. Gene mutations can also cause a cell to make too many proteins, abnormal proteins or not enough proteins.
Gene mutations happen in our cells all the time. Every time a cell divides there is a risk of a mistake being made when the cell makes a copy of its DNA. Our cells can usually find these mistakes and fix them before they are passed on to new cells. But sometimes cells can’t fix these changes, and the changes are passed on to new cells. The cells that have a gene mutation because of damaged DNA are the ones that can become cancerous. Since gene mutations build up over time, we have a higher risk of developing cancer as we get older.
Inherited and non-inherited cancers
Some cancers are caused by genetic changes we are born with and that are inherited from our parents. Cancers that are caused by inherited gene mutations are called inherited or hereditary cancers. People with inherited gene mutations have a higher risk of developing cancer, but it doesn’t mean they will develop cancer. But people who have inherited gene mutations linked to cancer tend to develop cancer more often and at an earlier age than the rest of the population. Of all cancer cases, only a cancers about 5% to 10% are caused by inheriting a certain gene mutation.
But many types of cancer have been linked to heredity including breast and colon cancer in adults and retinoblastoma in children.
Other cancers develop from genetic changes that happen during our lifetime. These are non-inherited cancers (also called sporadic or acquired cancers). They develop from gene mutations that happen when genes wear out as we get older or when we are exposed to something around us that causes cancer. Most cancers are non-inherited.
gene
The basic biological unit of heredity passed from parents to a child. Genes are pieces of DNA and determine a particular characteristic of an individual.
deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)
The molecules inside the cell that program genetic information. DNA determines the structure, function and behaviour of a cell.
chromosome
The part of a cell that contains DNA (genetic information).
In humans, each cell contains 23 pairs of chromosomes or 46 chromosomes in total.
gene mutation
A permanent change or alteration in a gene.
Gene mutations can be inherited or can be acquired during a person’s life.
antibody
A type of protein made by the immune system that disarms or destroys a specific foreign substance (antigen) when it appears in the body.
enzyme
A protein that speeds up certain chemical reactions in the body.
For example, enzymes in the intestines help to digest food.
hormone
A substance that regulates specific body functions, such as metabolism, growth and reproduction.
Natural hormones are produced by glands. Artificial or synthetic hormones can be made in the lab.
References
Previous Next
A-|A|A+
Need more information?
Call us toll-free at 1-888-939-3333
Or write us. We will reply by email or phone if you leave us your details. If we are not able to reach you by phone, we will leave a voicemail message.
First name:
Last name:
Email address:
Phone Number:
Postal code:
If you are outside Canada
We can give information about cancer care and support services in Canada only. To find a cancer organization in your country, visit Union for International Cancer Control or International Cancer Information Service Group.
Stories
Progress in leukemias
Read more
Links to help you
Publications
Talk to an information specialist
How can you stop cancer before it starts?
Discover how 16 factors affect your cancer risk and how you can take action with our interactive tool – It’s My Life! Presented in partnership with Desjardins.
Learn more
About Us
Who we are and what we do
Our history
Our research
Our partnerships
Our people
News
Research horizons
Ethical fundraising
Resource publications
Impact report
Financial statements
About our site & information
Our editorial policy
Medical disclaimer
Privacy policy
Linking policy
Terms and conditions
If you need support or have any questions, contact us.
Contact us – we’re here to help
1-888-939-3333
1-866-786-3934 (TTY)
Français
Quebec
Alberta and Northwest Territories
British Columbia and Yukon
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland and Labrador
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Contact us
|Careers
|For researchers
|For media
© 2019 Canadian Cancer Society All rights reserved. Registered charity: 118829803 RR 0001