The Right Diet For Hemorrhoids Sufferers
Home
Testimonials
FAQs
Order Now
Contact Us
News
Affiliate Program
The Right Diet For Hemorrhoids Sufferers
Whether you have hemorrhoids or you’re trying to prevent it, there is a right hemorrhoids diet that you can and should follow.
Fiber is an important part of a hemorrhoids diet. If you are currently suffering from hemorrhoids take bulk fiber supplements daily. This can help with your current hemorrhoids condition as well as prevent hemorrhoid recurrence. Just note though that bulk fiber may take a few days to work.
Apart from supplements, including more natural foods in your diet such as bran, whole-grain breads, cereal, fruits and leafy vegetables are a healthy way to include the much needed fiber into your system.
You should also drink more water to soften your stool and to avoid straining. Aside from reducing straining, passing softer stool also helps ease irritation and pain on existing hemorrhoids. 8 glasses of water a day is the ideal and recommended number.
To prevent hemorrhoids, it is also best to avoid processed food (fast food is a good example) in your diet. This is because refined or processed foods have small amounts of fiber content. Foods like these do not contain enough roughage for the intestine to pass stool easily which causes strain in the rectum during bowel movement.
A hemorrhoids diet means that you should avoid foods that could cause indigestion, gas and diarrhea.
Note: Hemorrhoids is a common condition and yet many of us do not know the correct spelling of the word. Here are a few variations - hemorroids, hemorroid, hemmoroids, hemmoroid, hemroids, hemroid, hemeroids, hemeroid, hemmroids, hemmroid, hemmeroids, hemmeroid, haemorrhoids, haemorrhoid, hemoroids, hemoroid, hemmoroids, hemmoroid, hemrroids, hemrroid, hemorroides, hemorroide, hemorrhoid.
2003-2017 Hemorrhoids-Help.com
14781 Memorial Dr. Suite # 2091 Houston, TX 77079 USA
Disclaimer: Our products do not diagnose or cure disease. These are natural products that have not yet been assessed by the FDA. These products are intended to be used for alternative healing. Use as instructed and if your symptoms persist, see a doctor. Individual results may vary, and testimonials are not claimed to represent typical results. All testimonials are by real people, and may not reflect the typical purchaser’s experience, and are not intended to represent or guarantee that anyone will achieve the same or similar results.