Food for Naught
You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.
Home
Medical ServicesMake an AppointmentPatients & VisitorsFind a ProviderLocations
You Are Here:
News FeaturesCurrently selected
From Shattered Elbow to Ground Breaking Mountain Climbs
Functional Foods
Happy Mother's Day
Grieving the Idealized Birth
New Treatment for Deadly Brain Cancer
Former NFL-er Uses Star Power to Tackle Lung Cancer Research and Awareness
Cancer Survivor Michael Cohen Rode his Bicycle to Inspire Others
Menopause Health Program First of Its Kind in San Diego
Healing Foods for Healing Bodies
UC San Diego Physician Recognized at White House for Health IT Advancements
New Clinical Trial Helps Participants Dance to a Healthier Lifestyle
UC San Diego Trauma Chief Named President of 2012 World Trauma Congress
UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center Leaders & Supporters Inspired by Student Donation
UC San Diego Experts Give Survival Tips for Active Shooter Event
St. Patty’s Day Twins Become Miracle Babies
Bringing Home Gold at the Transplant Games
Serving Up a Winning Strategy to Beat Cancer
Pradeep K. Khosla, University’s 8th Chancellor, Visits UC San Health System
Athlete’s Six Year Battle with Pain Ends after Hip Surgery
Summer Safety Tips, from Grilling to Swimming
Social Networks and Clinical Trials
Health System Reaches Out to Chula Vista With Fun, Free Event
Brothers Push Boundaries After Kidney Transplant
San Diego Surgical Team Changes Face of Patient Care Overseas
New Sports Medicine Chief Gets Athletes Back in the Game
Move Over November: Movember is Here!
Avoid Weight Gain During the Holidays: Advice from an Expert Physician
New Mother Grateful for Baby’s Health This Thanksgiving
Identifying Heart Failure When Minutes Count
Matters of the Heart: A Q&A with Ehtisham Mahmud
Surfer Gives Waves of Gratitude to Surgeon after Hip Replacement
From Consultation to Conception: Helping Couples Become Parents
Project Helps High-Risk Patients Connect with Community Resources
UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center Physician Appointed President of American College of Radiation Oncology
Sports Medicine for Women, by Women
Treating and Preventing Prolapse: a Q & A with Charles Nager
Boning Up on Osteoporosis
Transforming the Face of Surgery around the World
Nurse Reunites with Love of Running, Horseback Riding after Anterior Hip Replacement
The Rise and Fall of Muscle
UC San Diego Health Responds to AFSCME’s Plans for Two-Day Strike
New Trauma Center Provides State-of-the Art Care to Patients
Cancer Patients Sail the Soothing Seas
Three Generations, Seven Babies at UC San Diego Health
New Foot and Ankle Surgeon is Athlete at Heart
Boy Reunites with Medical Staff Seven Years after Premature Birth
Grandmother Doesn’t Skip a Beat after Heart Surgeries
Mother of Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Child Shares Personal Story to Help Community
Checkup Diabetes: the latest research and treatments at UC San Diego
Some Healthy Advice for the Rest of the Year – And Maybe the Rest of Your Life
Newsroom	Contact	Appointments Volunteer About Us Careers Giving Policy Notices
Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Main Navigation
Contact
|
Giving
|
Volunteer
|
About
|
Jobs
|
Newsroom
858-657-7000 | MyUCSDChart Login
Medical ServicesMake an AppointmentPatients & VisitorsFind a ProviderLocations
Menu
Search
Search
MyUCSDChart User Login
Sign Up | Activate Account
Newsroom
Home / Newsroom / News Features / Food for Naught
Press Releases
UC San Diego Health In The News
News FeaturesCurrently selected
Trending Topics
Suramin and Autism
Q and A
Parent Statements
Past Research
Poems
Bacteriophage Therapy
Tom's Story
Phage News
Q and A
Phage 101
FAQ
Quantified Surgery
Q&A: Quantified Surgery
Bios
Cancer Immunotherapy
Cannabis
Q&A: Cannabis
Cannabis 101
Clinical Trials
Press Releases
Podcast
Contacts for Journalists
Bigelow Science Communication Fellowship
Subscribe to Newsletter
RSS Feed
LeftActions
Food for Naught
Why grapefruit isn’t a great fruit when you’re taking some medications
By Scott LaFee | March 05, 2014
Share This Article:
Page Content
If you take a statin – a hugely popular class of drugs taken by more than 35 million Americans – you should take note of some tiny script printed on the container label: “Do not take with grapefruit or grapefruit juice.”
It seems an odd warning. Grapefruit seems so, well, good for you. The citrus is vitamin-rich, particularly in A and C, and in nutrients like lycopene (a powerful antioxidant) and salicylic acid, which helps break down inorganic calcium in the body and reduce symptoms of arthritis. Grapefruit is commonly touted as helpful for treating colds, gallstones and infections and its dietary fiber, called pectin, promotes better digestion. Grapefruit is also supposed to rev up your metabolism, boosting the calorie-burning benefits of some diets.
According to a study in the Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry, a daily serving of grapefruit lowers levels of “bad” LDL cholesterol by 15.5 percent and triglycerides by 27 percent.
Of course, lowering cholesterol is what statins are famously supposed to do, but consuming statins and grapefruit or grapefruit juice is not wise. In fact, it may be downright dangerous.
Grapefruit and grapefruit juice interact with dozens of drugs, 85 at last count and rising. Many of these interactions produce adverse effects; some potentially fatal. A Canadian study in 2012 reported that the number of known drug-grapefruit interactions with possibly fatal side effects grew from 17 to 43 in just four years.
The problem is that grapefruits are rich in furanocoumarins, organic compounds that block an enzyme produced by the liver and intestines to break down certain medications in the body. Without this enzymatic activity, levels of these medications can grow to harmful, even toxic, levels.
The list of interacting medications is diverse. It includes drugs used to treat cancer, diabetes, infections, inflammation, cardiovascular problems, pain, immune response problems, AIDS, even birth control and hormonal imbalances.
All drugs that interact with grapefruit are taken orally, but their effect varies. With some medications, a single serving of grapefruit can exponentially multiply the amount of drug in the body. For example, taking simvastatin, a popular statin drug used to lower cholesterol, with a seven ounce glass of grapefruit juice once a day for three days results in a 330 percent increase in the concentration of the drug in the body compared to taking the statin with water. The high amount of simvastatin in the body may result in rhabomyolysis, a breakdown of muscle tissue that lead to the release of muscle fiber into the bloodstream, ultimately causing kidney damage or failure.
Other drug-grapefruit interactions are linked to an increase in heart rhythm called torsade de pointes, which can be fatal.
Grapefruit isn’t the only troublemaker here. Pomelos (a hybrid between an orange and an Asian fruit called Citrus maxima) also contain furanocoumarins, as do Seville oranges (used in marmalades) and limes. These fruits have not been studied as much as grapefruit so it’s not known if they pose the same degree of risk.
It should be noted that not all medications in a drug class necessarily interact with grapefruit. Sometimes it’s possible to find a grapefruit-friendly drug that achieves the same health benefit. Here are some rules of thumb to remember:
If you take oral medications of any kind, check with your doctor or pharmacist to see if they interact with grapefruit. Assess the potential side effects. Some drugs are less effective if mixed with grapefruit.
Remember grapefruit isn’t the only food that may cause unwanted interactions. Pomelos, limes and Seville oranges may be problematic as well.
It’s not sufficient to simply avoid taking your medication with grapefruit and/or grapefruit juice. You must avoid consuming the fruit in any form for the duration that you are taking your medication.
If grapefruit is an absolutely essential part of your life, ask your doctor or pharmacist about alternative medications that do not interact with the fruit.
Grapefruit is singled out here, but the risk of adverse drug interactions is broad. There are many combinations of foods, drinks and other drugs that can cause problems.
Alcohol is an obvious example.
Eating chocolate and taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor drug like Nardil or Parnate (to treat depression) can result in a sharp rise in blood pressure. Likewise, MAO inhibitors don’t mix well with consumption of processed meats and aged cheeses.
According to researchers at the National Institutes of Health, roughly half of American adults take some form of dietary supplement (vitamins, minerals, amino acids, herbs, botanicals) on a regular basis. Some of these supplements have been shown to interfere with certain medications. Among them: St. John’s wort, vitamin E, ginseng and ginkgo biloba.
Not surprisingly, drugs can interact with other drugs and many Americans are on multiple medications. According to the Institute for Safe Medication Practices, almost 40 percent of the United States adult population take four or more medications.
The list of known drug-drug interactions is too long and complex to cite here, but there are, again, a handful of simple rules that will help minimize the risk of a drug-drug interaction.
Always read drug labels carefully. Look for warnings.
Keep medications in their original containers so you can easily identify them.
Ask your doctor about any special issues or considerations when you receive a new prescription. Ask about potential risks with interactive foods, drinks, supplements or other drugs.
If you’re purchasing a new or unfamiliar over-the-counter drugs (example: an antihistamine), check with a pharmacist to see if there are interaction concerns.
Use one pharmacy for all of your needs.
Make sure your doctor and pharmacist are up-to-date on everything you take. Bring a complete list of your prescriptions and any regularly consumed OTC drugs or supplements when you visit your doctor.
Follow Us:
Our bimonthly newsletter delivers healthy lifestyle tips, patient stories and research discovery news. Subscribe to Newsletter
Find a Provider Locations Newsroom Contact Us Translate
Select a Language Spanish Chinese Chinese (Traditional) Tagalog Vietnamese Korean Farsi/Persian Armenian Russian Arabic Khmer/Cambodian Hmong Laotian Czech Portuguese German French Japanese Italian Dutch
About About Us Giving Events & Classes Careers Volunteer
Patients & Visitors Billing & Insurance Financial Assistance Medical Records Appointments Walk-in Clinics Quality International Patients Health Library
Health Professionals Refer a Patient Transfer a Patient Nursing Infection Control Officer
Francesca Torriani, MD
Medical Director, Infection Prevention and Clinical Epidemiology
619-471-9045
UC San Diego | School of Medicine
Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Legal
Policy Notices
Site Map
Site Feedback
Toggle Desktop/Mobile ViewToggle Desktop/Mobile View