Himalayan Salt Lamps and Air Quality - Aprilaire
Home
Healthy Home
Healthy Home 101
Winter Wellness
Clean Air Everywhere
Products
Humidifiers
Dehumidifiers
Thermostats
Air Purifiers
Ventilation
Shop
Air Filters
Water Panels
Thermostats
Humidifiers
Dehumidifiers
Air Purifiers
Ventilators
Range Hoods
Contact
Find a Pro
Himalayan Salt Lamps and Air Quality
January 14, 2019
Do Salt Lamps Really Work?
Himalayan salt lamps have grown in popularity in the United States in recent years. They are often marketed as natural air purifiers that can also help with respiratory issues, mood, and sleep.
Salt has been used in treating ailments for centuries, especially in “halotherapy”, which involves breathing in salt-rich air.
Few scientific studies have been done on the subject of in-home salt lamps, but research into some of the claims made by salt lamp producers has been mixed.
Here’s an overview of the reported benefits and some studies that have looked at the claims associated with Himalayan salt lamps. This information can be helpful to consider when thinking about adding a salt lamp to your home.
How Do They Work?
When heated, salt is a natural ionizer. It changes the electrical charge of the air around it. Other natural ionizers include waterfalls, waves, and storms, though these produce much larger numbers of negative ions than salt lamps can.
The idea is that as salt blocks are heated, they release negative ions into the air, which “attract particles of pollution and give them a negative charge, making them seek an electrical “ground,” and causing them to fall harmlessly to the floor.”1
Salt is also naturally hygroscopic, meaning it absorbs water molecules from the air. Some salt lamp producers claim that the water molecules that are trapped by the salt block contain harmful impurities that are then removed from the air.2
Benefits and Evidence
Air Purification
The claims about benefits for people with respiratory issues like asthma probably come from the use of halotherapy, which has been shown to improve respiratory health in some cases.3
However, the concentrations of salt used in halotherapy are much greater than those found in common salt lamps. And no studies have focused directly on Himalayan salt lamps and respiratory health.
Other claims about removing impurities from the air are based on hygroscopy, which is a known process. But it’s unclear if common salt lamps are capable of removing significant amounts of contaminants like dust, pollen, smoke, and mold from the air.
Mood
Research has shown that people report improved feelings after exposure to large concentrations of negative ions. 4
It’s unclear how many negative ions salt lamps can produce when heated by a light bulb, and if those levels of concentration would compare to what was shown in the study.
Beyond negative ions, salt lamps look nice in a room and can make it feel cozier. This can help improve your mood, and make your environment more relaxing for others.
Bottom line, the Himlayan salt lamps can add a calming presence to any room in your home.
Sleep
At this time, there have been no studies that analyze the effects of salt lamps on quality of sleep. And there is no known association between higher levels of negative ions and better sleep.4
However, the lamp’s warm, inviting glow is a great alternative to glaring overhead lights as you wind down at the end of the day. And this may help you fall asleep faster.
Conclusion
Salt lamps are not a proven method for air purification, but can improve mood and make it easier to sleep.
Salt lamps have not been adequately tested. But their potential to improve your mood and the comfort of a your home environment can make them beneficial for you and your family.5
Sources
1 Solay Wellness, Inc.: http://www.natural-salt-lamps.com/howdosaltlampswork.html
2 Mind Body Green Lifestyle: https://www.mindbodygreen.com/articles/the-health-properties-and-benefits-of-himalayan-salt-lamps
3 Journal of Medicine and Life: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4391365/
4 BMC Psychiatry: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23320516
5 Harvard Health Publishing: https://www.health.harvard.edu/topics/mind-and-mood
Live Science: https://www.livescience.com/59328-himalayan-salt-lamp-faq.html
Categories: Air Purity, Aprilaire, Featured Media
Topics:air purity, comfort, health, salt lamp
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Post navigation
Previous Previous post: Ask Nurse Kate: How to Manage and Overcome Winter Allergies
Next Next post: Why You Need More Sleep in the Winter
Recent Posts
Spring Allergies and Contact Lenses: 6 Ways to Relieve Eye Irritation
Did you know that an estimated 45 million people in …
Ask Nurse Kate: 5 Questions to Ask a Doctor About Spring Allergies
For many of us, spring allergies are more common than …
My Local Pollen Count: How Is it Measured and Is it Reliable?
Spring allergies are a bummer. If you have a pollen …
Healthy Air, Healthy Home: Why Air Quality Is the Missing Wellness Cornerstone
“Wellness” can be defined as optimizing both physical and mental …
Arbor Day by the Numbers: Trees and Healthy Living
We’re focused on fresh air and healthy living here at …
More Recent Posts »
Search Posts
Search for:
Search
Posts by Topic
air purifier
air purity
Alexa
Allergies
aprilaire
asthma
Baby Health
cleaning
comfort
cooling season
crafts
dehumidifier
DIY
dry air
education
Energy Savings
Environment
Fall
Fall Allergy
family
family fun
food allergy
fresh air
halloween
health
healthy air
healthy home
HealthyHome
heating season
humidfier
Humidifier
Humidifier for Baby
humidity
HVAC
IAQ
illness
kids
Made in the USA
mold
pollution
portable
preservation
school lunch
smart home
spring
spring allergies
summer
thermostat
winter
winter wellness
ABOUT APRILAIRE
CHANNELS
COMPANY
About
Careers
Blog
Videos
Testimonials
PRODUCTS
Thermostat
Humidifier
Dehumidifier
Air Purifier
Ventilation
OWNER CENTER
Find a Pro
Use & Care Manuals
Warranty Registration
FAQ
Contact Us
CONNECT WITH APRILAIRE
FOLLOW US
STAY UPDATED
Join
Research Products | Legal | Privacy | Site Map | Contact
©2019 Aprilaire. Division of Research Products Corporation Madison, WI USA. All rights reserved.
Pin It on Pinterest
Share This
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn