Pregnancy Archives - ThePLab
Skip to content
FacebookTwitterPinterest
Contact
NewsLetter
Search for:
Home
Getting pregnant
Getting Pregnant Home
Conception
Conception tips
Signs & Symptoms
Early pregnancy symptoms
Early signs of pregnancy
Earliest signs of pregnancy
Signs of being pregnant
First signs of pregnancy
Pregnancy symptoms before missed period
Pregnancy Test
When to test for pregnancy
Home pregnancy test
Pregnancy test
Missed period negative pregnancy test
Now Your Pregnant
Pregnancy calculator
Pregnancy due date
Pregnancy stages
Pregnancy
Pregnancy Home
First Trimester
2 weeks pregnant
3 weeks pregnant
4 weeks pregnant
5 weeks pregnant
6 weeks pregnant
7 weeks pregnant
8 weeks pregnant
9 weeks pregnant
10 weeks pregnant
11 weeks pregnant
12 weeks pregnant
13 weeks pregnant
14 weeks pregnant
Second Trimester
15 weeks pregnant
16 weeks pregnant
17 weeks pregnant
18 weeks pregnant
19 weeks pregnant
20 weeks pregnant
21 weeks pregnant
22 weeks pregnant
23 weeks pregnant
24 weeks pregnant
26 weeks pregnant
27 weeks pregnant
Third Trimester
28 weeks pregnant
29 weeks pregnant
30 weeks pregnant
31 weeks pregnant
32 weeks pregnant
33 weeks pregnant
34 weeks pregnant
35 weeks pregnant
36 weeks pregnant
37 weeks pregnant
38 weeks pregnant
39 weeks pregnant
40 weeks pregnant
Pains & Discomforts
Bleeding
Blood tests
Braxton hicks
Bloating
Backache
Bleeding gums
Constipation
Cramps
Diarrhea
Gas
Hemorrhoids
Insomnia
Morning sickness
Spotting
Wellbeing
Breast changes
Pregnancy tips
Pregnancy diet
Food during pregnancy
Exercise during pregnancy
Stages & Symptoms
Pregnancy symptoms week by week
Pregnancy symptoms before missed period
Pregnancy symptoms
Early pregnancy symptoms
Trimesters of pregnancy
First month of pregnancy
Pregnancy ultrasound
Twins pregnancy
Tubal pregnancy
Baby
Baby Home
Baby Development
Baby week by week
Milestones for babies
Baby brain development
Baby stages
Baby growth
Growth of baby
Babies development
Baby growth
Breastfeeding
Tips for breastfeeding
Pumping breast milk
Electric breast pump
Breast feeding tips
Breast pump
Breastfeeding tips
Feeding baby
Baby Care
Newborn care tips
Newborn baby care
Baby care tips
Baby bathing
Baby massage
Sun protection for babies
Baby clothes
Baby products
Baby products more
Weaning
Weaning baby
Weaning foods
Babies first foods
Baby recipes
Baby food recipes
Baby Names
Search 40,000 baby names
Baby girl names
Baby boy names
Toddler
Toddler Home
12-24 Months
12 months old
13 months old
14 months old
15 months old
16 months old
17 months old
18 months old
19 months old
20 months old
21 months old
22 months old
23 months old
24 months old
25 – 36 Months
25 months old
26 months old
27 months old
28 months old
29 months old
30 months old
31 months old
32 months old
33 months old
34 months old
35 months old
36 months old
Development
Physical development
Social development
Fine motor skills
Gross motor skills
Emotional development
Cognitive development
News
Celebrity News
News
Search for:
Unleash the Facts about Antenatal Depression during Pregnancy
Gallery
Unleash the Facts about Antenatal Depression during Pregnancy
News, Pregnancy
Unleash the Facts about Antenatal Depression during Pregnancy
Overwhelming emotions, mood swings and fleeting are common during pregnancy. However, not necessarily these pregnancy symptoms will constitute the colloquial pregnancy-blues. There’s something more to it as well. It’s called antenatal depression; a clinical condition having the potential to disrupt the ability of pregnant women from functioning normally. So, what is antenatal depression? Antenatal a.k.a prenatal depression is a form of clinical depression that may affect a woman during pregnancy. A large mass tends to be aware of postnatal depression (PND), hence ignore this phase as a temporary bumpy-ride of emotions. However, if not given proper attention, it can be harmful to both the mother and unborn child. Given the general lack of awareness of antenatal depression, here are [...]
staff2019-04-09T11:06:19+00:00Categories: News, Pregnancy|Tags: antenatal depression, pregnancy, pregnancy-blues|
Read More
Getting Morning Sickness without Being Pregnant? Why!
Gallery
Getting Morning Sickness without Being Pregnant? Why!
News, Pregnancy
Getting Morning Sickness without Being Pregnant? Why!
Feeling nauseous and ‘liable to vomiting’ even at the slightest provocation in the morning, is what a pregnant mother expects. All the kiths and kins start to rally around, thinking about the well-being of the expectant mothers. But, all that glitters is not always gold! What if one experience the same without being pregnant? A fine difference first entails to be sorted out. Women without being pregnant can also feel morning sickness, but in this case, it’s called morning nausea. [P.S. This can happen to a man too!] Despite having a perfectly good night’s sleep, generally, women wake up with overwhelmingly nauseated, dizzy feeling. Going by the following hours, the vomit reflex goes off the chart. So, if you are [...]
staff2018-11-05T11:12:04+00:00Categories: News, Pregnancy|Tags: acid reflux, morning sickness|
Read More
Multivitamins & Folic Acid Consumption in Pregnancy Lowers Rate of Autism
Gallery
Multivitamins & Folic Acid Consumption in Pregnancy Lowers Rate of Autism
News, Pregnancy
Multivitamins & Folic Acid Consumption in Pregnancy Lowers Rate of Autism
Extracting statistical data from a recent survey conducted by Stephen Z. Levine, Department of Community Mental Health, University of Haifa, Israel, - multivitamins and folic acid intake by mothers during pregnancy has shown positive effects on children by reducing chances of autism. Though this research is at a very nascent stage, however, Dr Levine stated that, “A disorder like autism is heterogeneous and certain environmental factors are also associated with it. Hence, before finalizing certain details, further research is required.” The report that has been prepared is based on data collected on 26th January, 2015 – which gives a detailed accounting of 45,300 children who were tested between January 1, 2003 and December 31, 2007. This data was prepared [...]
staff2018-02-07T12:37:26+00:00Categories: News, Pregnancy|Tags: folic acid, multivitamins, pregnancy|
Read More
Probiotics Lowers Risks of Unwanted Pregnancy Complications
Gallery
Probiotics Lowers Risks of Unwanted Pregnancy Complications
News, Pregnancy
Probiotics Lowers Risks of Unwanted Pregnancy Complications
Pregnancy can have certain adverse outcomes which affect a mother’s health. During those nine months, many women suffer from complicacies that often results in miscarriage, pre-eclampsia or pre-term birth. However, a new research has suggested that probiotics in women can reduce these risks of pregnancy complications. One needs to take precautions so that such consequences don’t take place. Pre-eclampsia can occur during the 20th week of pregnancy. It causes high blood pressure and abundant protein formation in the urine. Severe eclampsia disrupts the placenta’s ability to intake oxygen and nutrients for the growing fetus eventually harming the baby’s development. This escalates the risk of suffering from chronic seizures which may harm an affected mother’s well-being. A mother’s diet influences [...]
staff2018-02-07T12:40:47+00:00Categories: News, Pregnancy|Tags: 20 weeks pregnant, baby's development, early stages of pegnancy, pregnancy complications, probiotics|
Read More
Find out If Your Weight Gain during Pregnancy is Too Much!
Gallery
Find out If Your Weight Gain during Pregnancy is Too Much!
News, Pregnancy
Find out If Your Weight Gain during Pregnancy is Too Much!
Studies by the US Institute of Medicine recently discovered and updated the pregnancy weight gain limit of women around the world. This was done to ensure healthy mothers and children through mass awareness. While gaining weight during baby’s fetal growth stage is quite normal, experts now suggest that too much could introduce a number of health risks in mothers. Recent guidelines for prenatal weight management are based on body mass index and body weight before pregnancy. For women with BMI less than 18.5, the recommended pregnancy weight gain bracket is around 12.5 to 18 kilograms. Women with BMI range between 18.5 and 24.9 can gain 11.5 to 16 kilograms. BMI up to 24.9 is considered normal by experts while [...]
staff2018-02-07T12:44:51+00:00Categories: News, Pregnancy|Tags: pregnancy, weight gain|
Read More
Truth behind Pregnancy While Breastfeeding Revealed by Experts
Gallery
Truth behind Pregnancy While Breastfeeding Revealed by Experts
Getting Pregnant, News, Pregnancy
Truth behind Pregnancy While Breastfeeding Revealed by Experts
A common myth that often circulates around the ‘new mother’ circles is that one can’t get pregnant while breastfeeding a baby. In fact, there is a condition called lactation amenorrhea which causes postnatal menstrual disruptions during the breast feeding phase. This often leads people to think that they might have become pregnant even when it is impossible. However, Jennifer Wider, a reputed MD clarifies that the condition is a result of prolactin secretion and estrogen suppression, a common condition in postnatal women. Many doctors often advise new mothers to use the Lactation Amenorrhea Method of contraception. This process entails heavy breastfeeding to reduce ovulation and estrogen secretion by increasing prolactin requirement of the body. However, this is no sure [...]
staff2018-02-07T12:46:07+00:00Categories: Getting Pregnant, News, Pregnancy|Tags: breastfeeding, getting pregnant, pregnancy|
Read More
Baby Brain Gets Real, Says Recent Scientific Research
Gallery
Baby Brain Gets Real, Says Recent Scientific Research
Baby, News, Pregnancy
Baby Brain Gets Real, Says Recent Scientific Research
Previously considered to be a myth, the baby brain concept is now getting a boost as a real phenomenon. Recent study on motherhood conducted by researchers from Deakin University shows that it might be an actual occurrence one of a kind. Pregnancy turns a mother into shadows of her ‘former self’ as the saying goes. But in reality, it might be an exceptional cognitive dissonance of the mother’s mind. Problems like losing focus, failure in concentrating, and forgetting trivial daily chores are some of the few typical side effects of the “mommy brain”. Breaking the myth that baby brain makes a mom’s mind sloppy; scientists are now arguing that it might actually heighten cognitive abilities of reason, empathy and [...]
staff2018-11-05T11:12:34+00:00Categories: Baby, News, Pregnancy|Tags: baby brain, pregnancy|
Read More
If Your Due Date is Fast-Approaching, Here’s Your To-Do List!
Gallery
If Your Due Date is Fast-Approaching, Here’s Your To-Do List!
News, Pregnancy
If Your Due Date is Fast-Approaching, Here’s Your To-Do List!
Besides counting the kicks, making the birth plan and deciding on the junior’s name, would-be mothers have a lot more things to do before they welcome their baby. If you are in the second trimester or third trimester, you can include a few other things in your to-do list to get ready for the baby. First is learning to fold and unfold the pram. With the squirming new-born in arms, it’s quite tricky to deal with the pram. Therefore, mothers can practice using the pram as well as storing it in car boot beforehand. The next thing mothers can do is shop well ahead. It’s not that they cannot visit the supermarket after the baby’s birth, but it would [...]
staff2018-02-07T12:53:15+00:00Categories: News, Pregnancy|Tags: second trimester, third trimester, to do list|
Read More
Learn and Deal with the First Trimester of Pregnancy Like an Expert
Gallery
Learn and Deal with the First Trimester of Pregnancy Like an Expert
Pregnancy
Learn and Deal with the First Trimester of Pregnancy Like an Expert
Becoming a mother is bliss. Every would-be mother out there, Congratulations! The very first few weeks of pregnancy are vital for the mother-to-be. Her body starts changing to make a comfortable home for her baby for the next 9 months! Due to the immense excitement of experiencing something new, it can be a little consuming for the mother in her first trimester of pregnancy. But don’t worry, you’ll get to know all about it so that you buckle up your shoes and get going on this new journey! How does biology explain the first trimester? Usually, by the time a woman comes to know about her pregnancy, she is already more than 1 month pregnant. The first trimester of [...]
staff2018-02-07T12:58:19+00:00Categories: Pregnancy|Tags: first trimester, pregnancy symptoms|
Read More
What to Eat and What to Avoid During Pregnancy
Gallery
What to Eat and What to Avoid During Pregnancy
Pregnancy
What to Eat and What to Avoid During Pregnancy
Kimberley Ann Johnson, nutritionist and bestseller author of The Fourth Trimester reveals a list of things that will be beneficial for pregnant women to eat. In a science backed approach, Johnson says that women should rather follow their cravings than a strict list of food items. Johnson told MyDomain journal, “After being a 20 years vegetarian eater, my pregnancy made me crave for hamburgers and chicken rottiserie. I didn’t stop myself at all and went ahead with it.” The period made her realize a lot about her post natal problems that happened because of low protein and mineral intake. She understood the many benefits of women having a wholesome approach to pregnancy diet rather than focusing on something particular. [...]
staff2018-02-07T13:03:43+00:00Categories: Pregnancy|Tags: pregnancy, pregnant women|
Read More
12Next
The Pregnancy Lab
Pregnancy, Baby, Toddler & Preschool Information & Advice – ThePLab – Complete Online Resource for Experienced, New & Expectant Parents. Information & Advice for Newborns. Baby, Toddler & Preschool Development Stages
Subscribe to our newsletter
Your Name:
Email address:
Leave this field empty if you’re human:
Links
Write for us
Contact
Sitemap
© 2018 ThePLab
FacebookTwitterPinterest