The BodyTalk: What makes us Different?
skip to main | skip to sidebar
The BodyTalk
Hear something? That's your body who's trying to talk to you. Hearing is not enough. You have to listen.
Saturday, October 07, 2006
What makes us Different?
Don't you think they are looking alikely CUTE?
What makes us Different? by Michael D. Lemonick and Andrea Dorfman in TIME says, "Chimpamzees share roughly 98% to 99% identical to humans at the genetic level. When it comes to DNA, a human is closer to a chimp than a mouse to a rat"(46-47).
The Puzzling Origins of AIDS by Jim Moore in American Scientist, Vol 92 says, "Most recent work has shown that the closest relative of the primary human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) is another simian immunodeficiency virus, one carried by chimpanzees (SIVcpz)." SIVcpz cross over into humans and become pathogenic. Surprisingly, SIV is harmless to its hosts (chimpanzees) when HIV causes AIDS in human.
I read Jim Moore's article about AIDS origins a while ago and just finished reading about "what make us different?".
My "un-expert non-scientist" mind happen to assume that maybe we can find the answers for AIDS in those differences of 1- 2% genes and find the cure for AIDS. Do you guys think it might be possible?
Posted by abovo99 at 3:39 PM
Labels: Article Reviews
6 comments:
Anonymous said...
possible, yeah... just creepy...
8:32 PM
Anonymous said...
Re thebodytalk:
hello thebodytalk,i am Chinese,and i speak english is not very well.thanks for your comment that in my blog.u said that
my blog has a nice name,my blog name is "eyereach".i agree with u,i like the name also.
i think maybe we will be friends like the pen pal,because we both like the blogger and the google.i think we will have
the same viewpoint on something.Haha,i think u must can read my words though my English is so bad.your blog have more connotation than its' outside.
have a good day!
and i forgot intro myself just,my name is Ju Pengfei(琚鹏飞).I am 21 years old.I like all simple things,just like my blog's theme.
12:32 AM
-Princess Shin- said...
They do actually look alike! haha.. but i prefer the little baby.. much cuter!
1:55 AM
Forty_Two said...
Does that explain my affinity for climbing trees?
8:37 AM
KarateCritic said...
Interesting. I did not realize that there was so much held in common between chimps and humans. Hopefuly you are spot on with your observation and researchers will be able to get it worked out.
10:48 AM
misssixty said...
i deffinatley believe in evolution, but it's odd to think that chimps are closer to humans that mice to rats :S
11:19 AM
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
My Another Blog
For Bag LOVERS!
About Me
abovo99
View my complete profile
Contact
Email Me
Labels
Article Reviews (5)
Body Facts (1)
Body Language (1)
BodySmarts (3)
Desserts (2)
Exercises (1)
Faces (3)
Facial Menu (1)
Funny stuffs (1)
Hair (2)
Remedies (2)
SkinCares and Beauty (3)
What's Good and Bad (2)
Links
Bestest Blog of All Time
Critique My Blog
Fashion Report
La Bella Flor
McDreamer
Miss Sixty
Numeric Life
Pregnant Pauses
Princess Shin
The Sartorialist
Blog Archive
► 2007 (1)
► February (1)
▼ 2006 (27)
► November (3)
▼ October (16)
Away for a while
Body Facts
Heal Yaself at home
Body Language
Body Fax
Cranberry Creams (Dessert)
The Best Eyebrow shape for your face
Face Shapes (Dedication to Princess Shin)
HairTalk-- Hair Bangs
Clever Face vs. its Clue
Some tips for hair
What makes us Different?
Period Problems You Shouldn't Ignore
Exercise: Butt Boot Camp
10 Reasons We'll Always Love Black
Skin care for Acne Mark
► September (8)
online
casino games
StatCounter