It’s time to put the vaccine-autism link behind us – Alternatives to Medicine
↓ Skip to Main Content
Home
About
Contact us
Useful sites
Home › Updates › It’s time to put the vaccine-autism link behind us
It’s time to put the vaccine-autism link behind us
Posted on April 28, 2013 by Editor ATM	Posted in Updates
There’s been considerable confusion about a possible vaccine-autism link but the evidence is now overwhelmingly against vaccines as the cause of autism. This article from Kevin.MD is a good read. Quote
Published in The Journal of Pediatrics this month, this study compared children with autism (including several subtypes) to typically developing children. They combed records to determine just how many vaccines and how many vaccine components were given, to see if they could find a link. Could increasing vaccine exposures increase children’s risk of autism?
No. Increasing exposures to the antibody-stimulating products in vaccines during the first two years of life did not increase the risk of developing any autism spectrum disorder.
At this point, the evidence for the lack of any vaccine–autism link is overwhelming. Continued vaccine study for any sorts of side effects needs to continue, but the singular focus on vaccines as the cause of autism as voiced by some in the autism community has become a hindrance to genuine progress and a public health nightmare. Let’s keep our kids healthy. Make sure your kids are fully vaccinated, on time and by the established schedule. It’s time to put this vaccine-autism thing behind us, so we can speed up the progress towards better understanding, prevention, and treatment. I’d hope that’s something we could all agree on.
‹ Effect of complementary and alternative medicine on the survival and health-related quality of life among terminally ill cancer patients
The red flags of Quackery ›
Tagged with: Vaccine
Malaysian Medical Resources
Ad
We highly recommend Exabytes for your web hosting:
Translation
English中文(简体)日本語Bahasa Melayu
by
Search for:
Recent Posts
Rodent tuber
Feedback: Query about Sabah Snake Grass
Feng Shui
Taking Ginkgo biloba to “boost your memory”? Sorry, it doesn’t work
Homeopathy: another elaborate placebo
Archives
June 2016
April 2014
January 2014
December 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
Recent Comments
Like us on Facebook
Links
Malaysian Medical Resources
© 2019 Alternatives to Medicine
Responsive Theme powered by WordPress
Top