PRIME PubMed | Serum lipoprotein levels, statin use, and cognitive function in older wome
Remember Me
Forgot your password?
Don't have an account? Sign up
Sign In
For You
Browse
FavoritesHistoryJournalsNotes
Search
Prime
New Tag
Type your tag names separated by a space and hit enter
Serum lipoprotein levels, statin use, and cognitive function in older women.
Abstract
BACKGROUND
Few strategies are available for the prevention of cognitive impairment in elderly persons. Serum lipoprotein levels may be important predictors of cognitive function, and drugs that lower cholesterol may be effective for the prevention of cognitive impairment.
OBJECTIVE
To determine whether serum lipoprotein levels, the 4-year change in serum lipoprotein levels, and the use of statin drugs are associated with cognition in older women without dementia.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS
An observational study of 1037 postmenopausal women with coronary heart disease enrolled in the Heart and Estrogen/progestin Replacement Study (participants at 10 of 20 centers).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE
The Modified Mini-Mental State Examination was administered at the end of the study after 4 years of follow-up. Women whose score was less than 84 points (>1.5 SDs below the mean) were classified as having cognitive impairment. Lipoprotein levels (total, high-density lipoprotein, and low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol and triglycerides) were measured at baseline and at the end of the study; statin use was documented at each visit.
RESULTS
Compared with women in the lower quartiles, women in the highest LDL cholesterol quartile at cognitive testing had worse mean plus minus SD Modified Mini-Mental State Examination scores (93.7 plus minus 6.0 vs 91.9 plus minus 7.6; P =.002) and an increased likelihood of cognitive impairment (adjusted odds ratio, 1.76; 95% confidence interval, 1.04-2.97). A reduction in the LDL cholesterol level during the 4 years tended to be associated with a lower odds of impairment (adjusted odds ratio, 0.61; 95% confidence interval, 0.36-1.03) compared with women whose levels increased. Higher total and LDL cholesterol levels, corrected for lipoprotein(a) levels, were also associated with a worse Modified Mini-Mental State Examination score and a higher likelihood of impairment, whereas high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglyceride levels were not associated with cognition. Compared with nonusers, statin users had higher mean plus minus SD Modified Mini-Mental State Examination scores (92.7 plus minus 7.1 vs 93.7 plus minus 6.1; P =.02) and a trend for a lower likelihood of cognitive impairment (odds ratio, 0.67; 95% confidence interval, 0.42-1.05), findings that seemed to be independent of lipid levels.
CONCLUSIONS
High LDL and total cholesterol levels are associated with cognitive impairment, and lowering these lipoprotein levels may be a strategy for preventing impairment. The association between statin use and better cognitive function in women without dementia requires further study.
Links
Publisher Full Text
Grapherence [↓120]
Authors+Show Affiliations
Yaffe K
,
Departments of Psychiatry and Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, 4150 Clement St, Campus Box 111G, San Francisco, CA 94121, USA. kyaffe@itsa.ucsf.edu
Barrett-Connor E
,
Lin F
,
Grady D
Source
Archives of neurology 59:3 2002 Mar pg 378-84
MeSH
Aged
Aging
Cognition
Cohort Studies
Female
Humans
Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors
Hypolipidemic Agents
Lipoproteins
Mental Status Schedule
Middle Aged
Pub Type(s)
Clinical Trial
Journal Article
Multicenter Study
Randomized Controlled Trial
Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
Research Support, U.S. Gov't, P.H.S.
Language
eng
PubMed ID
11890840
Citation
Yaffe, Kristine, et al. "Serum Lipoprotein Levels, Statin Use, and Cognitive Function in Older Women." Archives of Neurology, vol. 59, no. 3, 2002, pp. 378-84.
Yaffe K, Barrett-Connor E, Lin F, et al. Serum lipoprotein levels, statin use, and cognitive function in older women. Arch Neurol. 2002;59(3):378-84.
Yaffe, K., Barrett-Connor, E., Lin, F., & Grady, D. (2002). Serum lipoprotein levels, statin use, and cognitive function in older women. Archives of Neurology, 59(3), pp. 378-84.
Yaffe K, et al. Serum Lipoprotein Levels, Statin Use, and Cognitive Function in Older Women. Arch Neurol. 2002;59(3):378-84. PubMed PMID: 11890840.
* Article titles in AMA citation format should be in sentence-case
Copy
Download
MLAAMAAPAVANCOUVER
TY - JOUR T1 - Serum lipoprotein levels, statin use, and cognitive function in older women. AU - Yaffe,Kristine, AU - Barrett-Connor,Elizabeth, AU - Lin,Feng, AU - Grady,Deborah, PY - 2002/3/14/pubmed PY - 2002/3/28/medline PY - 2002/3/14/entrez SP - 378 EP - 84 JF - Archives of neurology JO - Arch. Neurol. VL - 59 IS - 3 N2 - BACKGROUND: Few strategies are available for the prevention of cognitive impairment in elderly persons. Serum lipoprotein levels may be important predictors of cognitive function, and drugs that lower cholesterol may be effective for the prevention of cognitive impairment. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether serum lipoprotein levels, the 4-year change in serum lipoprotein levels, and the use of statin drugs are associated with cognition in older women without dementia. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: An observational study of 1037 postmenopausal women with coronary heart disease enrolled in the Heart and Estrogen/progestin Replacement Study (participants at 10 of 20 centers). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The Modified Mini-Mental State Examination was administered at the end of the study after 4 years of follow-up. Women whose score was less than 84 points (>1.5 SDs below the mean) were classified as having cognitive impairment. Lipoprotein levels (total, high-density lipoprotein, and low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol and triglycerides) were measured at baseline and at the end of the study; statin use was documented at each visit. RESULTS: Compared with women in the lower quartiles, women in the highest LDL cholesterol quartile at cognitive testing had worse mean plus minus SD Modified Mini-Mental State Examination scores (93.7 plus minus 6.0 vs 91.9 plus minus 7.6; P =.002) and an increased likelihood of cognitive impairment (adjusted odds ratio, 1.76; 95% confidence interval, 1.04-2.97). A reduction in the LDL cholesterol level during the 4 years tended to be associated with a lower odds of impairment (adjusted odds ratio, 0.61; 95% confidence interval, 0.36-1.03) compared with women whose levels increased. Higher total and LDL cholesterol levels, corrected for lipoprotein(a) levels, were also associated with a worse Modified Mini-Mental State Examination score and a higher likelihood of impairment, whereas high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglyceride levels were not associated with cognition. Compared with nonusers, statin users had higher mean plus minus SD Modified Mini-Mental State Examination scores (92.7 plus minus 7.1 vs 93.7 plus minus 6.1; P =.02) and a trend for a lower likelihood of cognitive impairment (odds ratio, 0.67; 95% confidence interval, 0.42-1.05), findings that seemed to be independent of lipid levels. CONCLUSIONS: High LDL and total cholesterol levels are associated with cognitive impairment, and lowering these lipoprotein levels may be a strategy for preventing impairment. The association between statin use and better cognitive function in women without dementia requires further study. SN - 0003-9942 UR - https://www.unboundmedicine.com/medline/citation/11890840/full_citation L2 - https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamaneurology/fullarticle/vol/59/pg/378 DB - PRIME DP - Unbound Medicine ER -
Grapherence [↓120]
Links
Publisher Full Text
Authors
Yaffe K
Barrett-Connor E
Lin F
Grady D
MESH
Aged
Aging
Cognition
Cohort Studies
Female
Humans
Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors
Hypolipidemic Agents
Lipoproteins
Mental Status Schedule
Middle Aged
Also Available:
Unbound MEDLINE
Grapherence [↓120]
Related Citations
Effectiveness of the addition of ezetimibe to ongoing statin therapy in modifying lipid profiles and attaining low-density lipoprotein cholesterol goals in older and elderly patients: subanalyses of data from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Lipid levels and cardiovascular risk in elderly women: a general population study of the effects of hormonal treatment and lipid-lowering agents.
Associations of oral contraceptive use with serum lipids and lipoproteins in young women: the Bogalusa Heart Study.
Statins and cognitive function in the elderly: the Cardiovascular Health Study.
Serum estrogen levels, cognitive performance, and risk of cognitive decline in older community women.
Association of cognitive impairment with serum lipid/lipoprotein among Chinese nonagenarians and centenarians.
Association between high-density lipoprotein and cognitive impairment in the oldest old.
Change in cognitive function by glucose tolerance status in older adults: a 4-year prospective study of the Rancho Bernardo study cohort.
A prospective study of physical activity and cognitive decline in elderly women: women who walk.
Effect of postmenopausal hormone therapy on cognitive function: the Heart and Estrogen/progestin Replacement Study.
More
Home
Contact Us
Help
Privacy / Disclaimer
Terms of Service
Sign In
© 2000–2019 Unbound Medicine, Inc. All rights reserved
CONNECT WITH US
facebooktwitteryoutubeinstagram