Magnetic Leather wrist straps for Arthritis, Carpal Tunnel and Pain - Magnetic Attraction
Loading... Please wait...
My Account
Order Status
Wish Lists
View Cart
Sign in or Create an account
Home
Information
Terms of Use
FAQ's
Refund Policy
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Resources & Links
Testimonials
Search
Advanced Search | Search Tips
Categories
Magnetic Body Clips and Shoulder Pads
Magnetic Travel Products
Travel Mat
Magnetic Body Supports and Leather Wrist Straps
Mattress Pads / Underlays/Pillow Inserts
Magnetic Water Products
Magnetic Jewellery
Magnetic Pet Collars and Mats
Rare Earth Magnetic Discs
Vinyl Sealed Magnets
Essential Wallets
New Products
Magnetic Bra Strap - Black Cotton
$45.00
Add To Cart
2 PACK Magnetic Therapy Clip for Back, Shoulder, Arthritis, Sciatica, Period Pain, Gastric Reflux, Heartburn, Menopausal Symptoms.
$105.00
Choose Options
Magnetic Plantar Fasciitis Strap
$25.00
Choose Options
MINI Magnetic Therapy Clip for Shoulder, Arthritis, Gastric Reflux, Great for Children
$40.00
Choose Options
Motion Ease - Travel Sickness Strap with Magnet
$18.00
Choose Options
Our Newsletter
Your First Name: Your Email Address:
Home
Magnetic Body Supports and Leather Wrist Straps
Magnetic Leather wrist straps for Arthritis, Carpal Tunnel and Pain
Home
Magnetic Travel Products
Magnetic Leather wrist straps for Arthritis, Carpal Tunnel and Pain
Magnetic Leather wrist straps for Arthritis, Carpal Tunnel and Pain
See 9 more pictures
RRP:
Price (AUD):
$55.00
SKU:
MLWB1001
Vendor:
Brand:
Condition:
Weight:
30.00 Grams
Rating:
( 7 product reviews )
Availability:
Shipping:
Calculated at checkout
Minimum Purchase:
unit(s)
Maximum Purchase:
unit(s)
:
Gift Wrapping:
Color:
Choose a Color Dark Brown	Black	Maroon	Red	beige	light brown	chakra
Size:
Choose a Size Med 16cm - 18.5cm	Lge 19cm - 21.5cm
Style:
Choose a Style width 22mm	width 30mm	width 38mm	width 45mm
Quantity:
Buy in bulk and save
Product Description
Magnetic Leather Wrist Bands
These beautifully handmade magnetic leather wristbands, look like a watch band!
Magnetic therapy has been used for thousands of years and has been beneficial to most people who have tried them. Read the testimonial pages to see how a client has told us that her Trigger Finger has been cured!
Many of our clients wear them to assist in the healing process, helping to alleviate the symptoms and pain of Arthritis, Tendonitis and Carpal Tunnel Syndrome.
These #magnetic wrist bands are available in various designs and colors, and are made from genuine quality leather and contain powerful Rare Earth Magnets, all facing NORTH (alkaline) to the body.
If you would like a color which is not listed on the site, please email us to check what is in stock, as we often have other leathers in our workshop available.
NOTE: Please specify if you would like holes punched into the strap of your choice, in the comments section of your order.
Chakra straps are not available in 22mm width strap.
IMPORTANT NOTE: Persons who are fitted with pacemakers, defibrillators, implanted insulin pumps or other electro-medical devices should not use magnetic products. Magnets should always be kept at least 4-20 inches (10cm -50cm) away from computer hard drives. Also do not store magnets near any products with a battery, ie mobile phones OR your credit cards.
PREGNANCY: Due to the fact that no research has been done on the effect of magnetic products during pregnancy, we advise women not to use magnetic therapy until after the birth.
Always check with your health professional if ever in doubt.
Find Similar Products by Category
Magnetic Body Supports and Leather Wrist Straps
Magnetic Travel Products
Product Reviews
Write Your Own Review
1. How do you rate this product?
5 stars (best) 4 stars 3 stars (average) 2 stars 1 star (worst)
2. Write a headline for your review here:
3. Write your review here:
4. Enter your name: (optional)
5. Enter the code below:
Numb fingers from pinched nerve
Posted by Evan G - Melbourne on 16th Aug 2018
I had loss of feeling in my last two fingers for a few weeks, the doctor advised me that since I bashed the side of my hand that I had possibly damaged the nerve and may require surgery if it didn't settle in 6 weeks or so. I am a self employed builder, landcaping and construction and this caused a lot of issues with my ability to work.
I purchased the 35mm leather wrist strap and was stunned when one hour later I started getting tingling and feeling back in the fingers.
I would say approx 60-70% of the numbness has gone after wearing this magnetic leather strap for 3 days.
What an amazing product and I love the fact that these are all hand made here in Belgrave Australia!
Magnetic Leather wrist strap
Posted by Anne on 8th May 2017
I just love my Magnetic leather strap i have been suffering with Carpel Tunnel Syndrome , a friend told me about the magnetic leather straps , i got one and have worn it from February 2017 and have no more pain i just love it , i recommend it highly .
Magnetic Leather Bracelets are a life saver!
Posted by Amelia - USA on 27th Aug 2015
I have to give a firsthand testimonial about these magnetic leather bracelets from Magnetic Attraction. They are amazing! I sprained my wrist a year ago and it has still been giving me grief especially after a day at the office, but when I wear my magnetic bracelets, there is no pain. They are so fashionable as well, they just look like a leather cuff, but are secretly life savers!
Delightful Product!
Posted by Larry in Sydney on 3rd May 2015
I have been in several accidents over the many years - car, bicycle and motorcycle and now, in my mid fifties they have discovered that I have the genetic version of sleep apnea. (Took that diagnosis long enough!) Suffice to say that between the accidents and the apnea induced joint issues there is a lot to deal with in terms of pain and mobility. Probably due to the apnea, there is also horrendous sinus issues. I've tried many things over the years - some better than others. About a year ago, on advice of a friend - I went into the magnet situation, initially using Nikken products. Nikken is expensive and they do work but frankly, they aren't very well made. The wrist bracelets in particular use a metal mesh construction and it degrades quickly and digs into your skin.
I came across this site looking for magnetic dog collars as one of our Norwich Terriers is getting older and somewhat arthritic. I purchased collars for both dogs and both have had a new lease of life from the use of them, so on that basis I came back here for a set of wrist magnets to replace the failing Nikken ones.
Well what more can I say - they are superbly manufactured, work very well for pain relief and with sinus issues, and seem to be the goods as far as standing up to the rigours of daily use. I highly recommend them for anyone interested in magnet therapy!
Magnetic Wrist Strap - it works
Posted by Deborah - Berwick Vic. on 19th Oct 2013
I have developed what I think is arthritis in one of my joints on my pointer finger. It presented as a dull ache radiating up my arm. I was constantly aware of it and found myself rubbing it all the time. I bought a magnetic wrist band at the Berwick Market and thought I would give it a go.
WELL I have not taken it off since. I still have a little weakness in my finger however I don't have the constant ache and awareness off my finger. Amazing really. I think I am going to buy more in different colors:)
Thanks from Deborah
Magnetic support for Arthritis, too Shoulder and Lower Back Pain.
Posted by Debbie Wilson on 10th Jun 2013
I have been using a Magnetic clip for a painful shoulder, for months now and love it, I now have full movement back in my arm and shoulder. So thought I would try one for my lower back pain and it was no surprise how well it worked, and no lower back pain. I also have a leather bracelet that I wear for Arthritis in my wrist, it is the best, I never take it off. My daughter also had lower back pain so I gave her mine too try and she now swears by it. She doesn't need to take any painkiller which is a big plus.
Magnetic Healing on Painful Trigger finger
Posted by Cath Grant -Scotland on 17th Aug 2011
I had trigger finger on my left hand which was very painful and since wearing my magnetic leather wrist strap, it is completely cured which is wonderful. I also wear a clip as and where needed which also is a great help. I have lost count of the number of people I have told about it and my friend who has arthritis in her hands, very bad, since wearing her magnetic leather wrist strap, she has found a big difference in her pain level.
Thanks Gerry
Customers Who Viewed This Product Also Viewed
MAGNETIC EASY STRAPS - Magnets SEWN into Strap. Magnetic Support Straps, Knee, Elbow, Wrist, ,Plantar Fasciitis, Foot Arches, Ankles
$34.00
Choose Options
Magnetic Therapy Clip for Back, Shoulder, Arthritis, Sciatica, Period Pain, Gastric Reflux, Heartburn, Menopausal Symptoms.
$55.00
Choose Options
Magnetic Water Block for Magnetizing Water (Ying Yang)
$65.00
Add To Cart
Magnetic Dog collar
$26.00
Choose Options
Add to Wish List
Click the button below to add the Magnetic Leather wrist straps for Arthritis, Carpal Tunnel and Pain to your wish list.
Related Products
Magnetic Therapy Clip for Back, Shoulder, Arthritis, Sciatica, Period Pain, Gastric Reflux, Heartburn, Menopausal Symptoms. $55.00
MAGNETIC EASY STRAPS - Magnets SEWN into Strap. Magnetic Support Straps, Knee, Elbow, Wrist, ,Plantar Fasciitis, Foot Arches, Ankles $34.00
2 PACK Magnetic Therapy Clip for Back, Shoulder, Arthritis, Sciatica, Period Pain, Gastric Reflux, Heartburn, Menopausal Symptoms. $105.00
You Recently Viewed...
Magnetic Leather wrist straps for Arthritis, Carpal Tunnel and Pain
$55.00
Choose Options
All prices are in AUD. Copyright 2019 Magnetic Attraction. Sitemap | E-commerce software by myshophosting.