Lemon and Baking Soda: A Miraculous Combination
Home
General
Health
Health Care
Health Tips
Home Remedies
Weight Loss
Time For Natural Health Care
Time For Natural Health Care Will Help You to Improve Your Health With Natural Home Remedies, Lose Weight Naturally and Start to Live Healthy!
Home
Contact
DMCA Policy
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Lemon and Baking Soda: A Miraculous Combination
March 27, 2016 by admin 1 Comment
There are so many research studies that have shown how powerful baking soda and lemon juice are in fighting cancer. It has been called a super powerful combination because it can kill cancer cells.
There are over 20 laboratory studies (since 1970) that have shown how lemon is capable of destroying carcinogenic cells. In fact, these benefits of lemon have also been reported by one of the top drug manufacturers in the world. According to these studies, it was also found that this highly potent citrus fruit is beneficial in preventing cancer cell division. It also showed to be 10,000 times more powerful than chemotherapy, and this includes the widely used drugs such as Adriamycin.
How Can Lemon & Baking Soda Help You?
There are so many health benefits of drinking the combination of baking soda and lemon.
Curing Cancer
There are many research studies that have already confirmed it that the consumption of citrus fruits, specifically lemons, helps in both preventing and curing cancer.
These powers can further increase when baking soda is mixed in. This is because baking soda is capable of normalizing your body’s pH levels. This is another big factor in preventing or slowing down t spread of cancer.
Chemotherapy may work effectively at times, but it comes with some big drawbacks. While it destroys cancerous cells, it can also kill normal healthy cells. But when it comes to baking soda and lemon juice combination, it targets only the cancer cells and doesn’t affect your healthy cells.
So how much of the mixture should you drink?
If you have this serious disease, you should mix 1/2 teaspoon baking soda with 2 teaspoons lemon juice. Drink it in the morning before you take your breakfast. It will be best to take it on empty stomach before you take anything else.
If you want to boost the effects of lemon, use only organic lemons. Their effectives can be 100 times higher compared to the lemons which are grown using chemical fertilizers.
Lemon is not only known for its anticancer benefits, there’s much more to it. If you have tumors and cysts, you can use lemon for treating these problems.
Powerful Antimicrobial Benefits
Lemon is rich in vitamin C, and this nutrient gives lemon its powerful antimicrobial effect. It is highly effective in fighting fungal and bacterial infections.
Using lemon is also beneficial in treating internal worms and parasites. It can also help in regulating your blood pressure levels.
Lemon also works as a very strong antidepressant. You can also use it to reduce stress.
Source: Foods And Healthy Life
Filed Under: Health, Healthy food, Video
Comments
Myrna says
August 3, 2016 at 12:09 am
Do I have to add water in 2 teaspoon lemon juice and 1/2 teaspoon baking soda?
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Current [email protected] *
Leave this field empty
Categories
Beauty
Diet
Drink
Exercises
Featured
Fitness
Fruit
Gardening
General
Hair
Health
Health Care
Health Tips
Healthy Drinks
Healthy food
Herbs
Home recipes
Home remedies
Massage
Natural Remedies
Oil
Plants
Recipes
Skin care
Spices
Vegetables
Video
Weight Loss
Copyright © 2019 · Magazine Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in