Can you get addicted to weed?
Skip to content
addiction blog an American Addiction Centers Resource
Call Now. 24/7 Help Available.
All calls free and confidential
1-888-882-1456 i Who answers?
HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS
For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Addictionblog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution.
Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC).
Caring admissions consultants are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. These representatives work solely for AAC and will discuss whether an AAC facility may be an option for you.
Our helpline is offered at no cost to you and with no obligation to enter into treatment. Neither Addictionblog.org nor AAC receives any commission or other fee that is dependent upon which treatment provider a visitor may ultimately choose.
For more information on AAC’s commitment to ethical marketing and treatment practices, or to learn more about how to select a treatment provider, visit our About AAC.
If you wish to explore additional treatment options or connect with a specific rehab center, you can browse top-rated listings, visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA.
Alcoholism
alcohol
Drugs
Cocaine
Crack
Ecstasy
Heroin
Marijuana
Meth
Molly
Morphine
Spice
Prescription Drugs
Adderall
Ambien
Ativan
Buprenorphine
Hydrocodone
Methadone
Morphine
Oxycodone
Oxycontin
Percocet
Ritalin
Suboxone
Tramadol
Ultram
Valium
Vicodin
Xanax
About AAC
Treatment Q&A
Costs
Financing
Insurance
Interventions
Special Populations
Identifying Addiction
Rehab
Alcohol rehab
Drug rehab
The rehabilitation process
Rehab programs
Outpatient rehab
Inpatient rehab
Search
Call American Addiction Centers to find help with rehab.
Addiction Blog→ Drug→ Marijuana→
Can you get addicted to weed?
Get Help Today.
You are not alone. We can help you get better.
3RD-SAM-ACAD WEB-ADDICTIONBLOG-FORM
Can you get addicted to weed?
Yes, you can get addicted to weed. If you smoke chronically, your risk of addiction is high. More on weed addiction here.
September 5, 2011 November 2, 2018
3
minute read
Lee Weber
Author of "The Definitive Guide to Addiction Interventions"
3
minute read
3,586
article reads
5
comments
September 5, 2011 November 2, 2018
Yes. Long-term use of marijuana leads to addiction in some people.
Some people don’t believe that you cannot be physically addicted to marijuana the way that people are addicted to other drugs. But this is not true. In addiction to tolerance and withdrawal symptoms when THC levels drop (how long does THC stay in your system?), elements of psychological addiction to weed have been documented and agreed upon by experts. We review the characteristics of weed addiction and what you can do about it here.
What does it mean to be addicted to weed?
One of the first signs of marijuana addiction is using weed despite negative consequences. In other words, if you are smoking weed compulsively, even though it interferes with your health, your family, school, work, and/or recreational activities, you could be addicted to it. In addition, people addicted to weed cannot control their urges to seek out and use marijuana and think about it obsessively. Frequent, heavy marijuana users also develop “tolerance” to its effects and need eight times the dose to get the same effects as infrequent users. Other characteristics of addiction to weed include:
Craving and uncontrolled urges to use marijuana
Obsessive thinking about marijuana
Needing higher doses to achieve euphoric effect (tolerance)
Using marijuana despite negative consequences
Withdrawal symptoms when dosage is lowered or stopped
Who gets addicted to weed?
Marijuana is the most common drug of abuse in the U.S. Why do people smoke weed? Well, for lots of reasons. In fact, 60% of all illegal drug abuse occurs with marijuana and about 1 in 12 people who smoke weed may become dependent on it. The risk of addiction goes up to about 1 in 6 among people who start smoking weed when they are adolescents, and 25-50% of daily users. According to one study, teenagers who exhibit antisocial problems and use marijuana can quickly become addicted to it.
Ready for help?
Call us today. You don’t need to face addiction on your own.
1-888-882-1456
Are you addicted to weed? How to find help
Do you get high from eating weed? Yes. But most people smoke marijuana, leading to almost instant euphoria, and increased risk of addiction.
There are currently no medications used to treat marijuana addiction but several cannabinoid antagonists that are in development. For example, cannabidiol, THC and lofexidine are currently under clinical trial to test how they affect withdrawal symptoms and whether or not they can help prevent relapse. So at the moment, marijuana addiction treatment programs focus on counseling such as contingency management (CM), motivational enhancement therapy (MET), cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), and combinations of those approaches. There are also a number of programs designed especially to help teenagers who abuse weed. Finally, support groups have been found to help treat addiction to weed.
Family doctors can be a good source for information and help when dealing with marijuana problems. If you are seeking treatment, you can also call a National Drug and Alcohol Treatment hotline at 1–800–662–HELP (4357) for information on counseling services, or treatment options in your State. Drug treatment programs by State also may be found online at www[dot]findtreatment[dot]samhsa[dot]gov.
Reference sources: NIDA for Teens: Facts on Marijuana
NIDA Marijuana Update
Cognitive Function as an Emerging Treatment Target for Marijuana Addiction
About the author
Lee Weber
Lee Weber is a published author, medical writer, and woman in long-term recovery from addiction. Her latest book, The Definitive Guide to Addiction Interventions is set to reach university bookstores in early 2019.
Tags: marijuana marijuana addiction marijuana addiction symptoms marijuana dependence
SPEAK WITH OUR ADMISSIONS NAVIGATORS
1-888-882-1456
– OR –
LET US CALL YOU
3RD-SAM-ACAD WEB-ADDICTIONBLOG-FORM
Start your
recovery today.
Find Out How
5 Comments
Leave a Comment
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
I have read and agree to the conditions outlined in the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
Name *
Email *
Website
Subscribe to this post
Subscribe to Addiction Blog updates
Jamie says:
October 10, 2017 at 3:46 am
My 16 year old son admits to have been smoking marijuana for the past two years. He refuses to stop. He has withdrawn from all activities he once loved, his grades are dropping and he is threatening to drop out of school. He has claimed to have had depression and suicidal thoughts. We have sought treatment with a team psychologists and psychiatrists. We have had him on Prozac. He spent time in a residential facility for the depression and suicide. He continues to lie and deceive us and refuses to follow any basic rules of the house. He is refusing any therapy and refuses to take any medication. We have dealt with violent outbursts from him when he has broken rules and has had consequences handed to him. He is physical and destructive. He runs away anytime he breaks the rules (which are very liberal). The first three run always we begged him to come home, we involved the police, and contacted all of his friends. The 4th time we just let him go. We have never kicked him out nor told him he could not return home. We suspect he may be dealing. We have found scales and several baggies. We are monitoring his phone and notice several different numbers incoming and outgoing calls. We do not know what to do. He has said he will lie his way through any treatment. He does not want our help. He wants to move out and be on his own at 16. We know if we force him to come him and he realizes all of his privileges (car and freedom) will be gone until he shows changes and improvements. He will become violent and destructive and will run away again. We (his parents) do not know what the right answer is. We have another 15 year old son in the house that cannot continue to be exposed to the violent outbursts and constant conflict. My 16 year old smoker refuses to abide by any rules and face the consequences when he breaks the rules. He thinks he should be able to do whatever he wants. He was once a very bright, responsible, talented, ambitious preteen who had the world at his fingertips and now he continues to make bad decision after bad decision. Please help with any advice.
Reply
Lydia @ Addiction Blog says:
October 13, 2017 at 3:03 pm
Hi Jamie. I suggest that you look into the CRAFT model for families and interventions. One NGO called Allies in Recovery has some online reading that can help: http://alliesinrecovery.net/about-craft/
Also, call 1-888-503-1835 for a toll-free and confidential marijuana helpline available 24 hours a day, 7 days per week.
Reply
Addiction Blog says:
October 17, 2012 at 3:07 pm
Hi Nick. Perhaps we’re getting the terms a little confused. Marijuana dependence is physically possible and is indicated by significant withdrawal symptoms upon cessation, including anxiety, irritability, bodily discomfort, and insomnia. Marijuana addiction is characterised not be the presence of marijuana dependence, but by the psychological factors while compel use.
But I agree with you on the rest!
Reply
Nick says:
September 27, 2012 at 2:03 am
I have to disagree with your claim that cannabis can be physically addictive. There is no evidence (and many studies to the contrary) that marijuana use leads to physical addiction. However, it is true that an individual can become psychologically addicted to pot, just as they can to any other euphoria producing circumstance such as driving fast, skiing, etc… If a person finds themselves psychologically addicted, I would urge them to find what is driving them to turn to cannabis, as it is usually something deeper than the marijuana itself, which is more likely to be a symptom of attempted self medication against whatever is really going on.
Reply
Ashley Williams says:
September 13, 2011 at 8:36 am
Yes, I agree the fact that teenager’s are the most Emotionally stirred group !!!!!
Reply
Related Posts
Do you get high if you eat weed?
Who uses weed? The face of marijuana addiction (INFOGRAPHIC)
Weed rehab treatment: Who seeks help for marijuana addiction? (INFOGRAPHIC)
Does weed cause cancer?
Is weed addictive?
Does weed cause memory loss?
Does weed cause lung cancer?
Does weed kill brain cells?
Marijuana overdose: How much amount of weed to OD?
Bob Marley quotes about weed (INFOGRAPHIC)
Get Help Today.
You are not alone. We can help you get better.
3RD-SAM-ACAD WEB-ADDICTIONBLOG-FORM
Home
Contact
Advertising
Contributors
Publishers
Terms of use
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
This site complies with the
HONcode standard for trustworthy
health information: verify here.
|
Copyright © 2019 AddictionBlog.org | For immediate help, call 1-888-882-1456
I am ready to call
i Who Answers?
×
HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS
For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Addictionblog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution.
Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC).
Caring admissions consultants are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. These representatives work solely for AAC and will discuss whether an AAC facility may be an option for you.
Our helpline is offered at no cost to you and with no obligation to enter into treatment. Neither Addictionblog.org nor AAC receives any commission or other fee that is dependent upon which treatment provider a visitor may ultimately choose.
For more information on AAC’s commitment to ethical marketing and treatment practices, or to learn more about how to select a treatment provider, visit our About AAC.
If you wish to explore additional treatment options or connect with a specific rehab center, you can browse top-rated listings, visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA.