Healing Crystals Free Yourself From Stress and Negativity | Tana Hoy
Join My Inner Circle
Join my Inner Circle and learn the psychic cosmic secrets that will improve your life forever. It’s FREE!
Join Now
or
Schedule a Reading
Ready to get Started?Schedule a Reading NOW (614) 444 6334
Menu
Home
Schedule a Reading
Inner Circle
About Tana
Tana’s Blog
Tana Hoy / Gemstones And Crystals / Healing Crystals To Free Yourself From Stress and Negativity
Healing Crystals To Free Yourself From Stress and Negativity
By Tana Hoy - October 3rd, 2018
Share & Enjoy
0
Crystals have been known for their healing properties since ancient times.
Crystals are rock formations that were formed by the earth over thousands of years. They have many different uses aside from their common uses for decorations. And crystals are still used in radios today!
The first radios that were invented used crystals to transmit radio waves and crystals are still used in radios today! Quartz watches also use crystals to regulate their movement.
The word “crystal” comes from krustallos, an Ancient Greek word which means both “rock crystal” and “ice”.
Crystals are formed when liquids from the earth cools and evaporates causing their molecules to create tight chemical bonds, which then form the crystal.
Throughout history, crystals have been used as a source of healing power. You may have seen pictures of ancient cultures, such as the Egyptians, Mayans, and Sumerians, having their bodies, jewelry, and buildings, adorned with crystals. Because they knew that healing crystals can align, clear, and transform your energy, spirit and physical health.
Healing crystals have thousands, and even millions of years of the Earth’s history preserved within them. Once you come into contact with these crystals, they can connect you to the earth by harnessing the energy and life giving elements of the universe.
Healing Crystals and Their Meanings
Healing crystals are crystals with healing properties and they can be used to heal certain diseases, reduce stress levels, and clear negativity. Because a crystal acts as a channel for healing energy, directing the positive healing energy of the universe to flow into your body, causing the negative energy to be drawn out.
As you know, everything is made up of energy. Therefore, healing crystals and the cells in your body are both made up of the same kind of energy.
When certain crystals are placed over certain parts of your body, your energy transforms, vibrates, pulses, moves, and shifts, in accordance with the properties and energetic signature of the crystal.
Different crystals have different properties and different energies, which can treat different things. Let’s take a look at the most common healing crystals and their particular function.
The Most Common Crystals and Their Healing Properties
Amethyst
Amethyst has both physical and spiritual healing qualities. It calms and clears the mind of confusion and soothes negative and stressful emotions. It strengthens the immune system and balance the hormone levels.
Turquoise
Wearing this crystal gives you a sense of confidence in public, and also imparts wisdom. It is valued it for its ability to help you interpret dreams, ward off evil, and strengthen love and friendship bonds.
If you are struggling with insomnia, agate can help you.
Clear Quartz
This is the master healer, which is often used to cleanse and re-energize crystals. This crystal stimulates and improves all bodily function, including the heart, liver, nervous system, and immune system. It also aids in concentration and memory.
Rose Quartz
This crystal is used to heal heart ailments, as well as emotional heartbreaks. It also improves respiratory problems, kidneys, and the adrenals.
Agate
Agate reduces negativity, tension, and anger. It improves mental function, concentration, and perception. It also strengthens blood vessels, heals skin disorders, and helps with insomnia.
Hematite
This crystal is often used to ground and balance you. It is perfect if you are under stress and need to calm down and become centered. It can also help to clear away any negative feelings that occur from stress or anxiety.
Citrine
This is a wonderful yellow stone that keeps you cheerful because it is filled with empowering solar energy. It slows degenerative disease, and balances your thymus, and thyroid glands.
Garnet
Garnet aids in the treatment of spinal conditions. It also boosts the immune system and restores energy levels.
Jade
This stone relieves physical pain, such as cramps, and helps flush toxins from the body.
It also brings blessings and peace, decreases irritability, and protects you from negativity.
Obsidian
Obsidian dispels negative energy, aids in digestion, reduces joint pain, and also fights bacterial and viral infection.
How To Use Crystals For Healing
There are thousands of various types of healing crystals. So, let’s talk about the different ways you can use them to heal yourself.
Wear crystals as jewelry
Crystals absorb, repel, and transmit energy. By wearing them, they can help balance your energy field throughout the day. Think of this like taking your daily dose of vitamin that nourishes your body. Wear crystal jewelry or put it in your pocket to receive it’s healing effects.
Place the crystal on specific part of your body
Place the crystal on the part of your body that needs healing. If you’re having a migraine, you can put a quartz crystal directly on the part of your head that is hurting.
Wearing crystals can help you balance your energy field throughout the day.
Meditate with crystals
Hold the crystal in one or both hands, as you close your eyes and focus on your breathing. You may feel your body sinking deeper into the earth, along with feeling a lightness surround you.
Create crystal grids
Crystal grids are used to transform the energy of a space. Choose crystals that align with your intention and lay them out in a predetermined pattern. These patterns are designed to receive and transmute energy.
Sleep near your crystals
Healing crystals can eliminate any worries on your mind while you are sleeping. Place the crystals under your pillow or on your bedside table and you will see how they affect your dreams. You will even feel better when you wake up in the morning.
Place them in your home or car
You can put protective crystals in your car to block the negative energy that causes accidents. You can also place them in your home to set the energy for a room. Since amethyst dispels negative energy and emits positive vibes, it is the perfect addition to any room.
Cleansing Your Crystals
It’s important to keep your crystals clean, since they absorb, attract, and repel, certain types of energy. Particularly negative energy.
When you buy crystals or stones in a store, you should cleanse them first to align their energy with yours.
Here are some methods for cleansing and recharging your crystals:
Run them under clean running water, either under a faucet, or a natural stream.
Place them on a windowsill overnight for a ‘moon bath’.
Bury them in the earth for a night or two.
Now that you know about healing crystals, I hope you will find instant relief from any stress or negative feelings, that you might be experiencing.
During a psychic reading, I also advise my clients on which crystals they should wear to help them in their life situations. For guidance on what gems or crystals would be best for you, you can click here to schedule a Healing Crystal Consultation now.
If You Liked Reading This Article, You Might Enjoy These Other Articles, Too:
7 Gems And Crystals With The Strongest Healing Powers
Gemstones and Crystals – Discover Their Magical Powers
Crystals And Their Meaning – Everything You Need To Know
Lithomancy: A Powerful Divination Technique Using Stones
Tags: crystals, healing crystals, psychic, psychic medium Tana Hoy, psychic tana hoy, tana hoy
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
E-Mail (Won't be published) (required)
Website
Recent Letters
Here are my Latest Psychic Predictions for 2019 (May Release) April 22, 2019
My Latest Psychic Predictions For 2019 (May Release) April 22, 2019
Today’s Psychic Energy Report for 04-20-19 April 20, 2019
Animal Omens And The Meanings Of These Strange Encounters April 19, 2019
Do you have Energy Leeches attached to you? April 18, 2019
Topics
Topics Select Category Akashic Records Aliens And UFO’s angels Blog Cosmic Download Fairies And Elves Finding A Soulmate Free Access Free Psychic Quiz Gemstones And Crystals guardian angel Horoscope 2012 Horoscopes 2013 Horoscopes For 2012 Horoscopes For 2014 Horoscopes For 2015 horoscopes for 2016 Horoscopes For 2017 Horoscopes for 2018 Horoscopes for 2019 how to love yourself How To Open The Third Eye Invisible Beings of Light Lucky Numbers Magical Beings News Newsletter Numerology Past Lives and Reincarnation Predictions Prosperity and Wealth Psychic Development Psychic Energy Reports psychic healing Psychic Learning psychic mysteries Psychic predcitons 2014 Psychic Predictions Psychic Predictions 2013 Psychic Predictions 2016 Psychic Predictions 2017 Psychic Predictions 2018 Psychic Predictions 2019 Psychic Predictions For 2013 psychic quiz Psychic Reading Psychic Teachings Psychic Therapy Psychic Vampires Soulmates Spirit Guides The Chakras The Law of Attraction Uncategorized what are spirit guides
Get Tana’s Newsletter
Name*
First
Email*
Name
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Follow Me
Menu
Psychic Medium
Phone Psychic
Love Psychic
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Tana Hoy