DrinkYourPiss.com
-If you choose to frequent any site about the astounding hobby of urine drinking, make it this one!-
Site owners
Zachary Campbell ND
-If you choose to frequent any site about the astounding hobby of urine drinking, make it this one!-
What You Don't Know Can Hurt You
Every one of us has a right to know that our bodies produce an invaluable source of nourishment and healing that we can utilize to heal ourselves and to maintain our lives and our health in both everyday circumstances and in emergencies and life-threatening situations.
Two news articles from the past that recently came across my desk vividly illustrate the absolutely tragic consequences of the public's lack of information and our completely unfounded misconceptions regarding our bodies' own perfect medicine:
Tom Brokaw, NBC Nightly News, October 16, 1992:
"In Egypt, rescue workers found a 37-year-old man alive in earthquake rubble. He survived almost 82 hours by drinking his own urine. His wife, daughter and mother would not and they died."
Associated Press, July, 1985:
I don't think there's any question that these women and the child would not have died had they simply been aware of the truth that not only would their own urine not harm them, but would, in fact, have provided a power-packed combination of liquid nutrients and critical immune factors that would have sustained them in good health until help arrived.
The Medical Proof
For almost the entire course of the 20th century, unknown to the public, doctors and medical researchers have been proving in both laboratory and clinical testing that our own urine is an enormous source of vital nutrients, vitamins, hormones, enzymes and critical antibodies that cannot be duplicated or derived from any other source. They use urine for healing cancer, heart disease, allergies, auto-immune diseases, diabetes, asthma, infertility, infections, wounds and on and on -- yet we're taught that urine is a toxic waste product. This discrepancy between the medical truth and the public information regarding urine is ludicrous and, as the news releases you've just read demonstrate, can mean the difference between life and death to you and to your loved ones.
When I contracted a crippling, incurable disease early in life, I used every available conventional medical and alternative healing method over the course of many years without success. When an acquaintance suggested I try "urine therapy" I though she'd lost her mind, but with no options left, I swallowed my prejudice and decided to give it a go. To my own (and everyone else's) amazement, my healing was so rapid and so profound with urine therapy that no question remained in my mind that someone in the medical community had to know more than they were telling about this incredible body substance. And as a matter of fact, they did know more - a lot more.
After many months of haunting university libraries, scanning countless microfiche files and poring over piles of medical journals, I had amassed a small mountain of astounding research studies, findings and files on the use of urine in medicine and healing, I discovered, among numerous other things, that urine, far from being a toxic body waste, was actually a purified derivative of the blood made by the kidneys which contains, not body wastes, but rather an incredible array of critically important nutrients, enzymes, hormones, natural antibodies and immune defense agents.
At the end of it all, as I sat tiredly in my chair eyeing the stacks of research papers covering my desk, I realized that the medical community had pulled off one of the biggest hoodwinks in history. Take for instance the doctor who reported that "urine acts as an excellent and safe natural vaccine and has been shown to cure a wide variety of disorders including hepatitis, whooping-cough, asthma, hay fever, hives, migraines, intestinal dysfunctions, etc. It is completely safe and causes no side effects." (J. Plesch, M.D., The Medical Press, 1947); or the oncologist who reported that "a patient with intractable ovarian cancer was treated with Human Urine Derivative and is now completely well and enjoying the rest of her life." (Dr. M. Soeda, University of Tokyo, 1968). These remarkable findings were published in medical journals - but did you ever hear about them?
And what about the immunologist who, after extensive clinical and laboratory research stated: "It was rapidly appreciated that undiluted urine administered orally was therapeutically effective for Immune Therapy and was initiated when it became obvious that an allergic condition had become uncontrollable." (Dr. C.W. Wilson, 1983, Law Hospital, Scotland). Or the Harvard medical researchers who discovered that active "antibodies to cholera, typhoid, diphtheria, pneumonia, polio, leptospira and salmonella have been found in the unconcentrated urine of infected individuals." (Lerner, Remington and Finland, Harvard Medical School, 1962). What abut the Scandinavian researcher who, in 1951, conclusively proved that human urine can completely destroy tuberculosis? It's a deadly disease, and is now resistant to antibiotics. Isn't it time someone told us that our own urine is medically proven to be anti-tubercule?
Then there's the research into wounds and burns using urea (the primary solid component of urine). As only one research study among many reported: "In America, urea has been used for the treatment of various infected wounds and it has been found to be extremely efficient...even the deepest wound can be treated effectively.... Urea treatment has been successful where other treatments have failed. For external staph infections we found urea preferable to any other dressing...there are no contra-indications to its use." (Dr. L. Muldavis, 1938, Royal Free Hospital, London).
Now these medical reports are only a few of the more than 50 research studies I compiled and published in the book Your Own Perfect Medicine, but they certainly give an indication of the importance of what we've never been told about urine by the medical community. As far back as 1954, the Journal of the American Medical Association (July issue) reported that "More scientific papers have probably been published on urine than on any other organic compound." Another publication revealed that "more than 1,000 technical and scientific papers, related only to low molecular weight substances in urine, appeared in medical and scientific literature in one single year." All this fuss about a substance that we're told is nothing more than a body waste?
I think one of the most interesting pieces of information on urine I came across was the fact that the amniotic fluid that surrounds human infants in the womb is primarily urine. Actually, the infant "breathes in" urine-filled amniotic fluid continually, and without this fluid, the lungs don't develop. Doctors also believe that the softness of baby skin and the ability of in-utero infants to heal quickly without scarring after pre-birth surgery is due to the therapeutic properties of the urine-filled amniotic fluid.
Reports on the extraordinary external benefits of urine abound as well. Medical studies relate remarkable cases of stubborn or "incurable" chronic, severe eczema that miraculously disappear with urine therapy. Because urine is both anti-viral and anti-bacterial, it's ideal for treating cuts, wounds and abrasions of all kinds. Acne, rashes, athlete's foot and fungal skin problems respond dramatically to urine soaks and compresses as well. (You'll find complete instructions for using urine therapy internally and externally in Your Own Perfect Medicine.)
For home use or emergency treatment care for wounds, poisonous bites or stings, and even broken bones, urine is an incomparable, proven natural healing agent that provides instantaneous therapeutic benefits under any circumstances.
For years, people have said to me, "Well, I have heard of people surviving by ingesting their own urine, but I thought it was just a myth." Myth it isn't. Medical fact it is. As Dr. John R. Herman remarked in his article which appeared in the New York State Journal of Medicine in June, 1980: "Auto-uropathy (urine therapy) did flourish in many parts of the world and continues to flourish today....there is unknown to most of us, a wide usage of uropathy and a great volume of knowledge available showing the multitudinous advantages of this modality. Actually, the listed constituents of human urine can be carefully checked and no items not found in human diet are found in it. Percentages differ, but urinary constituents are valuable to human metabolism."
Your Body's Own Super-Nutrition Therapy
In 1975, one of the founders of Miles Laboratories, Dr. A.H. Free, published his book Urinalysis in Clinical Laboratory Practice, in which he remarked that not only is urine a sterile body compound (purer than distilled water), but that "it is now recognized that urine contains thousands of compounds, and as new, more sensitive analytical tools evolve, it is quite certain that new constituents of urine will be recognized." Among the urine constituents mentioned in Dr. Free's revealing treatise is a list of nutrients that will knock your socks off. As Dr. Free comments, the ingredients listed below are only a few critical nutrients found in urine:
Alanine, total ..... 38 mg/day
Arginine, total ..... 32 mg/day
Ascorbic acid ..... 30 mg/day
Allantoin ..... 12 mg/day
Amino acids, total ..... 2.1 g/day
Bicarbonate ..... 140 mg/day
Biotin ..... 35 mg/day
Calcium ..... 23 mg/day
Creatinine ..... 1.4 mg/day
Cystine ..... 120 mg/day
Dopamine ..... 0.40 mg/day
Epinephrine ..... 0.01 mg/day
Folic acid ..... 4 mg/day
Glucose ..... 100 mg/day
Glutamic acid ..... 308 mg/day
Glycine ..... 455 mg/day
Inositol ..... 14 mg/day
Iodine ..... 0.25 mg/day
Iron ..... 0.5 mg/day
Lysine, total ..... 56 mg/day
Magnesium ..... 100 mg/day
Manganese ..... 0.5 mg/day
Methionine, total ..... 10 mg/day
Nitrogen, total ..... 15 g/day
Ornithine ..... 10 mg/day
Pantothenic acid ..... 3 mg/day
Phenylalanine ..... 21 mg/day
Phosphorus, organic ..... 9 mg/day
Potassium ..... 2.5 mg/day
Proteins, total ..... 5 mg/day
Riboflavin ..... 0.9 mg/day
Tryptophan, total ..... 28 mg/day
Tyrosine, total ..... 50 mg/day
Urea ..... 24.5 mg/day
Vitamin B6 ..... 100 mg/day
Vitamin B12 ..... 0.03 mg/day
Zinc ..... 1.4 mg/day
As you read over this extraordinary list of nutritional elements, you can begin to understand why the stories you may have heard of people surviving on their own urine are true. But what about other elements in urine that you've heard about?
YouTube Video
Sign in|Recent Site Activity|Report Abuse|Print Page|Powered By Google Sites