Grapefruit drug clashes soar | medwirenews.com
Skip to main content
Register Login
My profile
My newsletters
My dashboard
medwireNews
Medicine Matters
TOOLBAR 1 2 3 4
SEARCH
Medicine Matters
MENU 1 2 3 4
Close search form
Diabetes
Neurology
Oncology
Ophthalmology
Respiratory
Rheumatology
More therapy areas subNavigationMarker subNavigationPointer
Other current therapy areas
Archived services
eAlerts
Medicine Matters
medwireNews
Javascript needed
Please enable JavaScript on your browser, so that you can use all features of this website.
« Back to the search result list main-content
Top
29-11-2012 | Article
Grapefruit drug clashes soar
Abstract
CMAJ 2012; Advance online publication
The number of available drugs that have the potential to interact adversely with grapefruit has risen markedly in recent years, shows a review.
Canadian researchers found the number of medications that can cause serious adverse effects on interaction with grapefruit increased from 17 to 43 between 2008 and 2012.
Advertisement
Study authors Dr David Bailey (Lawson Health Research Institute, London, Ontario) and colleagues say that many of the drugs are widely prescribed, yet doctors lack awareness of the potential problem.
"Unless healthcare professionals are aware of the possibility that the adverse event they are seeing might have an origin in the recent addition of grapefruit to the patient's diet, it is very unlikely they will investigate it," the researchers write in the Canadian Medical Association Journal. "In addition, the patient may not volunteer this information."
The interaction is due to components of grapefruit, furanocoumarins, also found in other citrus fruits such as Seville oranges and limes. They interfere with the cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) enzyme, which is essential for the bioinactivation of about 50% of all medications. Just a 200 ml glass of grapefruit juice can cause a clinically relevant increase in systemic drug levels, the authors explain, even if the medication is not taken at the same time.
Serious adverse effects include torsade de pointes, acute kidney failure, respiratory depression and gastrointestinal bleeding, as well as bone marrow suppression in immunocomprised patients. The team highlights that drugs with a very high predicted risk of interaction include halofantrine, maraviroc, lovastatin, simvastatin, dronedarone, ketamine, lurasidone and domperidone.
Advertisement
Elderly people may be particularly at risk because they are more likely to buy grapefruit products and to be taking medications than younger patients. Also, their capacity to compensate for excess drug concentrations is reduced.
Medical News is an independent clinical news service provided by Springer Healthcare Limited. © Springer Healthcare Ltd; 2012
By Caroline Price
Putting research into context. Saving you time. Keeping you informed.
Follow us
About us
Our mission and values
Range of services
FAQs: Users
FAQs: Commercial partners
Testimonials
Contact us
Information for partners
For healthcare professionals
For societies
For funders
Licensing medwireNews
Scope of expertise
Legal information
Terms of use
Privacy statement
Cookies
© 2019 Springer Healthcare is part of the Springer Nature group
Version: 201802052232-1202