B-Light-Lite Weight Loss
Top » Catalog » VITASLIM SPECIAL LINE » xVTSLMxCHWGM My Account | Cart Contents | Checkout
Categories
B-Light Slimming Capsules (1)
B-Light Weight Loss (1)
B-Light Diet Pills (1)
Slim Pomegranate (1)
Tomato Plant Weight Loss (1)
A-Slim Natural Slimming Capsules (1)
Slim Bio Diet Capsules (1)
1 2 Day Diet Weight Loss (1)
Slim Vie Lose Weight (4)
SlimForte Weight Loss (3)
Slim Forte GOLD DP (3)
ABC Slim Belly Patch (1)
Meizi Slim Belly Patch (1)
Lingzhi Toxic Slim Tea (1)
Paris Loreal Slim Patch (1)
Beauty Slimming Tea (1)
LiDa Meizi NiceFigure Slim Tea (1)
Ginseng Slim Tea 1 Box (1)
Slimming Herbal Tea (1)
China Energy Slim Tea (1)
Minoxidil 6 Month Revitalizes Ha (1)
FORTE Anti Hair-Full Regrowth 3 (1)
LIDA full Regrow Treatment 3 Mon (1)
Toppik Hair Building Fiber (1)
Abidexin Diet Pills (1)
LIPOZIN SLIMMING CAPSULES (1)
Perfect Women Breast Enlargment (1)
FEG - EYELASH ENHANCER GROW (1)
Li Lash Eyelash Serum Regrowth (1)
Lipozin + Carb Block Ultra (1)
30 Day Control Slim Bonus Pack (1)
Body Lab Ultra Fast Slim Kit (1)
Lose Weight Coffee (1)
Jillian 14 Day Cleanse and Burn (1)
Body Lab Thermodynamic Total Bur (1)
MAXIMA GARCINIA CAMBOGIA (1)
B-LIGHT GENESIS EDITION (3)
VITASLIM SPECIAL LINE (6)
B LITE PLUS (6)
All Brands Perfume & Cologne-> (123)
Prescription Youth Products (5)
MAX FAT BURN (3)
Manufacturers
Please SelectKm Dali Beauty ..USA
What's New?
Prescription Youth women Complete Skincare System Hydro Drench M
$205.95
$99.99
Quick Find
Use keywords to find the product you are looking for.
Advanced Search
Information
Shipping & Returns
Privacy Notice
Conditions of Use
Contact Us
VitaSlim CHEW GUM 1 Box
[xVTSLMxCHWGM] $59.95 $34.95
Click to enlarge
VITASLIM Line Chewing Gum
Chewing and Losing Weight
VitaSlim Line Chewing Gum – the sweetest and most fun way to lose weight.
Chew and become thinner – that is what VitaSlim Line Chewing Gum is all about Nice and Easy.
Lose Weight Feel Great with the Worlds Most Effective Weight Loss Chewing Gum Sponsored and (patented Licaps® technology by Capsugel).
Fat Burning
VitaSlim Line tastes and looks just like a normal chewing gum. The special thing about it, however, is in the inside – in its ingredients. There are two active ingredients in it – Guarana and green tea extract. They decompose and burn excessive body fats. The action of those two ingredients is focused on the problem zones – thighs, waist and hips. VitaSlim Line Chewing Gum is a great addition to a slimming program with VitaSlim LIGHT, Vitaslim LINE (capsules) and Vitaslim FITNESS. Such a combination ensures long-lasting and healthy weight reduction.
Chewing gum is the perfect product for long-term support of normal bodyweight.
Healthy Teeth with VitaSlim Line
VitaSlim Line Chewing Gum does not contain sugar. It helps reduce tooth demineralization and lower the acidity of tooth plaque. That also reduces the risk of tooth decay.
How to take VitaSlim Line Chewing Gum?
Separately, for weight loss: 2 dragees 3 times a day after main meals. The beneficial effect is achieved by chewing 2-3 grams of sugar-free gum for a period of 20 minutes at least three times a day after meals.
Separately, for sustaining normal body weight: 1–3 pieces of chewing gum daily.
When combined with other Vitaslim products: 1–3 pieces of chewing gum daily.
Contraindications: Excessive consumption can lead to a laxative effect! Not recommended for kids, pregnant and breast-feeding women.
The Chewing Gum That Is Good For You
Green tea extract – very effective in weight reduction – especially as far as those extra few pounds on the waist so many ladies cannot get rid of are concerned. It activates metabolism and prevents fats from building up again. Green tea extract participates in the regulation of glucose production in the liver and creates a feeling of satiety.
Guarana extract – contributes to better heat dissipation in the human body. Guarana also helps accelerate the metabolic processes. Recent clinical studies have proven the positive effect of guarana in improving mental activity, reducing fatigue and maintaining vitality and youth.
Aspartame-Free
INGREDIENT
CONTENT in 1 dragée
Green tea extract, leaves (Camellia sinensis extract) --- 4,51 mg
Guarana extract, seeds (Guarana Extr.) --- 3,86 mg
Additional ingredients: sweeteners: xylitol, sorbitol, mannitol, maltitol, sucralose, acesulfame К, chewing gum base, natural lemon flavor; hardener: gum Arabic; emulsifier: lecithin; humectant: glycerol; color additive: titanium oxide; acid: citric acid, malic acid; glazing agent: carnauba wax.
For more information, please visit this products webpage.
This product was added to our catalog on Sunday 30 April, 2017.
Shopping Cart
0 items
Manufacturer Info
- Km Dali Beauty Industry Homepage
- Other products
Notifications
Notify me of updates to VitaSlim CHEW GUM 1 Box
Tell A Friend
Tell someone you know about this product.
Reviews
Write a review on this product!
Languages
Currencies
US DollarEuro
Friday 19 April, 2019 2955216 requests since Thursday 23 January, 2014
Copyright © 2019 B-Light-Lite Weight Loss
All Rights Reserved.