Amazing simple and best benefits of homemade natural drinks to reduce beely or tummy fat
Skip to content
Natural homemade drinks to reduce belly fat
Most of the people want to lose their belly fat that accumulates around the midsection. This gives ugly and unattractive look that is dangerous for your health. This may lead to high blood pressure, diabetes, heart diseases, fatty liver diseases, stroke etc. It can be caused due to weak metabolism, certain diseases, hormonal changes, stress, overeating etc. Here you have best remedy to lose this belly fat.
Homemade drinks and remedies reduce belly fat
Lemon water to prevent extra fat in belly
The stressed liver will not metabolize. So lemon water increases the enzymes to detoxify the liver. The fat efficiently and that gets deposited around your abdomen. This juice helps to carry out the basic function effectively. Take 1 lemon and 1 glass of water. Squeeze juice from lemon and warm water into it. Stir them well and drink this warm lemon water on an empty stomach in the morning. Make sure that not to eat anything for 30 minutes after. Lemon juice early in the morning gives relief from belly fat. In the morning, daily on an empty stomach results best.
Ginger tea to reduce belly fat
Ginger is a natural digestion thermogenic agent that increases the body temperature and helps to burn the fat more easily and perfectly in a short span of time. Belly fat is because of overeating, stress, lack of exercise, and hormone reduction. Ginger suppresses the production of steroid hormone, as it mobilizes energy regulation. Daily consumption of ginger tea loses the tummy fat.
Take 1 – 2 inch of ginger, 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon of honey, 4 cups of water, and a teapot. Take water in a teapot and place it on the stove. Boil water for a few minutes and then add ginger to that water. Let it simmer for 5 – 10 minutes. Then remove it from the stove. Add freshly squeezed lemon juice and honey to it. Mix the well and drink in the morning. It helps the digestion that reduces the cortical production. Drink at least 2 -3 cups of ginger tea once in the morning, afternoon, and dinner.
Cranberry juice for flat belly
Cranberries contain organic acids such as malic acid, citric acid and the quinic acid that acts as a digestive enzyme. It will act as emulsifying agents on your stubborn fat that is deposited in the lymphatic system. It helps to digest and reduce the fat. Take unsweetened 1 cup or 8 Oz cranberry juice, 7 cups or 56 Oz of water. Take cranberry juice and mix it in water. Drink this one cup at a time and continue drinking throughout the day. You can have a cup of this cranberry juice or water before breakfast, lunch, at snack time, after dinner and any other times of the day as per your convenience.
Green tea to lose belly fat
Drinking 4 cups of green tea everyday help to lose more than 6 pounds of weight and fat within 8 weeks. It has natural phenol and has anti-oxidants. Green tea will help to boost up your metabolism. Take 1 – 2 teaspoons or tea bags of green tea, ½ – 1 teaspoon of lemon juice, 1cup of hot water, 5 mint or basil leaves, honey if you want. Take a green tea bag and mint or basil leaves add them in a cup of hot water and stir it. Cover it and allow it to steep for about 7 – 10 minutes. Then strain the tea, then add lemon juice and honey into it. Mix them well and drink it. Daily 3 – 4 cups of green tea are preferably after meals.
Herbal treatment to reduce tummy fat
Ginger, cucumber, and mint are some of the herbs that help to reduce tummy fat. It is excellent to burn fat like lemon. Cucumber contains water and dietary fiber that helps to lose weight. Ginger allows your blood vessels to expand for better blood circulation. Mint calms down your craving that soothes the tummy after indulge in foods. Lemon is rich in vitamin C, anti-oxidant properties that burns fat.
Take 1 medium sized cucumber, 1 teaspoon of ginger or 1 – 2 inch piece, 10 – 12 sprigs of mint leaves, 1 lemon, and 2 liters of water. Cut the lemon and cucumber into slices. Take a bowl and add all the ingredients in water. Stir them well and soak it for overnight. In the morning, drink this water. Repeat it regularly to get complete relief.
Apple cider vinegar drink to reduce belly fat
The water keeps you hydrated and when mixed with apple cider vinegar boost your metabolism. This helps you for the body’s metabolism and can start working properly. This allows you to lose weight. Lemon juice when mixed with vinegar taste little more bearable. The organic apple cider vinegar gets tried natural remedy to lose weight. The diet specialists recommended apple cider vinegar to remove extra fats from the body. This helps to burn your calories. This will burn fat and helps in weight loss, which improves digestion and can flush out toxins from the body that increases weight. This suppresses hunger and can control the intake of food. Drink this fat burner drink twice daily to burn belly fat.
Take 1 teaspoon of apple cider vinegar, 1 teaspoon of lemon juice, 1 teaspoon of honey, 1 glass of water. Mix all the ingredients well and drink it for every 3 hours before every meal for 3 times a day. Alternatively, 64oz/8 glasses of water, 8 teaspoons of organic ACV and 8 teaspoons of honey. Mix all the ingredients well in one 8 ounce glass for every 3 hours before going to get every meal for 3 times daily.
Garlic to decrease belly fat
Garlic is an excellent anti-obesity property that helps to get rid of belly fat. This reduces systolic, diastolic blood pressure and triglycerides. This can increase the good cholesterol. Garlic avoids conversion of pre fat cells into fat cells.
Take 3 garlic cloves, 1 lemon and 1 cup of water. Squeeze out fresh lemon juice in a cup of water. Mix them well. Chew some raw garlic cloves and drink them on an empty stomach. Repeat this on every morning within 2 weeks.
Naturally dandelion tea to lose belly fat
The belly fat reduces because of water maintenance and dandelion herb acts as a natural diuretic. It expands your pee yield and can enhance your liver’s working limit. This helps to flush out and can hold the water and is poisoned out of your body, this is particularly from belly zone. This also helps to prevent stomach bloating. The consolidated with some fat lessening flavors, dandelion tea gives a great helps to lose belly fat naturally. Dandelion root 1 tablespoon or dandelion root powder 1 teaspoon, new ginger, minced half crawl piece, 1 cardamom seeds, half creeps piece, 4 – 5 mint leaves, 1 – ½ mug of water, 1 – 2 teaspoon of nectar to taste. Mix all the ingredients well. Heat the water and let them boil. Heat it up to 5 – 10 minutes. Strain the tea and add nectar. Blend well that has flavorful dandelion root tea.
Author Beauty Health TipsPosted on Jun 7, 2016 Jun 7, 2016 Categories Stomach
Post navigation
Previous Previous post: How to prevent hair fall after straightening
Next Next post: Benefits of egg for different skin problems
Recent Posts
Waterborne diseases: symptoms, causes, preventions – Types of waterborne diseases
Home remedies for chikungunya – How to recover from chikungunya fever
How to use rice water for skin and hair – Beauty benefits of rice water
Home remedies for gas problem – How to get rid of gastric problems
Home remedies for neck pain – Causes of neck strain
Proudly powered by WordPress