US$30k tumour
[ Tim's web ] [ Home ] [ Up ] [ Site map ] [ Contact ] [ Feedback ] [ Bioenergy links ] [ GOOGLE Search ] [ Energy Systems ] [ Human Tests ] [ Protection Products ] [ Research ] [ Mailers ]
WARNING! EMF radiation from this PC depletes your bioenergy! Get protection for your safety!
Cellphone Risks
Cellphone dangers - Industry knows
Mobile Cell Stress = Cancer
Acoustic Neuromas
Blood-brain barrier breached
Brain tumour from cellphones
Brain cancer Review
Cellphone excites brain cortex
Deadly Obsession cellphones
Ear tumours up 4x due cellphones
Loss of hearing due cellphones
DNA damage Cellphone Radiation
Endothelial stress to brain
Gliomas up 40% - 10 years CP use
GSM damages brain neurons
Video: Cellphones disrupt hospital equipment
Cellph Risks 2
Health fears - Cellphones
Mobile health implications
Infertility from cellphones
Sperm count reduced by cellphones
Mobiles damage DNA
Mobiles breach blood-brain barrier
Rural risk higher with cellphones
Scientists avoid mobiles
Alzheimer's triggered by phones
Sperm reduced by 1/3rd
US$30k payout -cellphone cancer
Visual damage from mobiles
Work absence up -mobiles
Mobiles interfere vital hospital equip
Child Risks
Radiation from Baby Monitor risky
Fetal exposure RF - Autism
Leukaemia 5x higher -Magnetic fields in homes
Cellphones hazardous 4 children
Emeritus Professor view cellphones as cigs of 21st C.
Cellphones endanger children more
Child brain effect shock -cellphone
Child brain tumour -cellphones
Child Warning over mobiles UK
Cellphones for Kids - Risks
Cellphone worse for child
Health fears - Mobiles
Sperm count reduced by cellphones
Mobiles damage DNA
Infertility from cellphones
Warning Cellphones UK study
UK & French warnings
Vienna Drs Warning: Child use Cellphones
Leukaemia -Power lines
Child autism from EMF
Dangers - EMF
Cordless phone high risk
Sensitive to things Electrical - a Chief Exec's warning
Electrosensitivity - Health Issues
Breast cancer EMF cause 2006
Breast cancer EMF in Home
Adverse effects of EMF
Cumulative effect from EMF
Screen use ups glaucoma
Visual damage from EMF frequencies
Video camera use -brain tumours
RF frequencies cause cancer
Fed. warning - cordless phones
What doctors warn: Freiburger links with illness
Benevento scientists caution
How radio frequency EMR harms you
What is your exposure to EMFs?
Danger articles
Safety regulations are inadequate
RF frequencies do cause cancer
Women & Children more Exposed
Hormone disruption from EMFs
Electropollution, Hormones, Cancer
Cumulative effect of EMF
EMF affects your Brain
EMF affects to humans
Range of health effects from EMF
EMR causes cancer
Visual damage from EMFs
Insurance risks
Reinsurers avoid cellphone risks
Human Tests
MSAS bioenergy test video
How radio frequency EMR harms you
Cellphone effect on you
Computer effect on you
Cordless phone effect on you
Television effect on you
Shaver's effect on you
Vehicle effect on you
MSAS bioenergy tests Auckland
MSAS bioenergy tests Toronto
Inst. Vital Energetics: Cellphones
Biolife body energy enhancer
Blood microscopy Stress reduction
Smart Card fluid energiser
Smart Card food energiser
Home-Office Harmoniser
Protection
Buy effective GIA Wellness protection
EMF Stress Effects Outline
Biopro Solutions to be Safe
Thermographic Imaging of Cell Chip Benefit
Amazing Biolife Pendant
Biolife blood micro. stress reduce
Smart Card drinks energiser
Smart Card food energiser
Bioproduce "star burst" vitality
Amazing Home-Office Harmoniser
News Shocks
Radiation from Baby Monitor risky
Radiation Risks Real
11% affected by phones
2 in 3 people now affected by EMFs
Cordless phone high risk
Respiratory Disease -Electrosmog
10th Breast cancer -ABC studio closes
9th Breast cancer -ABC Newsroom
Personal accounts of breast cancer sufferers in ABC
Breast cancer EMF cause 2006
Breast cancer -EMFs & Environ factors
Breast cancer - EMF in homes
Bee navigation disrupted
Benevento Statement of Concerned Scientists
Nth Sth ltr EMF hazard
BBC studio Video Cam brain tumours
Reinsurers avoid cellphone risks
WiFi Dangers
WiFi - Hi Tech Horrors caution
WiFi Health Time Bomb
WiFi health worries
Children at Risk from Electro Smog
WiFi Reasons for Health Concerns
WiFi Outline
WiFi myths debunked
Federal Govt warning on WLAN
EU watchdog WiFi warning
WiFi radiation 3x cell masts
Worried Families ditch WiFi
Salzburg Health against WLAN
UK Schools dismantle WiFi
WLAN - a Doctor's account
RF Mast Danger
Cellphone Masts - Awful Truth
Cell Masts Cancer Clusters UK
RMIT Top Floor Cancers - Masts on Roof
How Mast Radiation affects U -Hyland
ICRW Harm Mechanisms
Health & Environ effects RF Radiation
Cumulative effect from EMF
Masts - Sleep Disturbance
Fire Fighters refuse Masts
Pylons & Wiring
Leukaemia -Power lines
Draper Study: Cancer-Power lines
Breast: Cancer -HiVolt Power lines -Melatonin effect
Leukaemia 5x higher -Magnetic fields in homes
Pylons - Child Leukaemia
Pylons Caused Son's Cancer
Pwr Lines Double Cancer risk for Children
Pylons constant Radiation - Cancer
Pylons links to Disease
Pylons double Miscarriages
Pwr Lines Cancers in Massey
Pylon links to Cancers in Hunuas
Chronic Fatigue - Appliance EMF
EMF Research
LATEST -Science reveals Mech of Harm
LATEST Global Review: EMR Dangers verified
Safety regulations are inadequate - US views
Safety guidelines inadequate - UK perspective
Physics & Biology of Mobile Telephony -Hyland
Scientists Benento Caution
EMF affects to humans
Fetal exposure RF - Autism
How ICRW radio waves harm you
Dr Carlo discloses hazards
ERK activation cell harm
Inst. Vital Energetics: Cellphones
Studies on Microwave Radiation
Energy systems
About EMF - What is it?
Atoms - an EMF force holds them together
How EMF waves affect atoms
EMF disrupts your bioenergy -Kirlian images
Your Biofield - your body's energy system
Subtle Energy - your body's signals
Intellectual Energy
EMR - understanding effects
Environmental EMF basics
Schumann resonances of Planet & life
BioE mailers
Bioenergy Mailer Aug 2007
Bioenergy Mailer Feb 2007
Bioenergy Mailer Jan 2007
Bioenergy Mailer Nov 2006
Your body has an energy signalling system that's vital for its proper function. See Energy Systems. You need to protect it!
Don't exposure yourself to EMFs without protection. You wouldn't expose yourself to the sun for hours - you'd get skin cancer soon enough. EMF is invisible and every day EMF stress affects your body putting your health at risk; a wide range of symptoms result. Just read What Doctors warn. EMF radiation depletes bioenergy, compromising your immune system! There is a cumulative effect. Take advantage of my website to find out more about these modern day hazards.
An amazing new protection that really works is now available with GIA Wellness. You can avoid adverse health risks and enjoy a New Generation of Wellness in an increasingly electropolluted world. Electropollution is a real environmental toxin.
Especially don't expose your child to EMFs. They have a lifetime more to bear this and the full extent of risks is not yet known!
Brain tumour from cellphones at work
US$30,000 employment compensation payout
Compensation payout of US$30,000- awarded by a US Court to one unfortunate woman for a brain tumour caused by using cellphones at work.
This is the first in what is expected to be a host of such cases as the accumulating effects of pulsed radiation from cellphones and other EMF radiation exposure accumulate.
Much higher amounts are expected to come from product liability payouts.
Reported in the Sun Sentinel October 2, 2005
Court victory is a first for cellphone programmers
by Nancy McVicar, Health writer
Sharesa Price thought it was just another in a series of sinus infections. Her head and eyes hurt, and she was vomiting. But then Price had a seizure, and a brain scan found something far more troubling.
"When I got home, the phone was ringing. It was the doctor's office, and they told me, "Brace yourself. Honey, you have a brain tumor." I was standing by the refrigerator, and I just collapsed, saying, "No, no, no, it can't be a brain tumor," she recalled.
After her diagnosis in 1999 and surgery to remove most of the tumor, Price started looking for answers. She became convinced that exposure to radio-frequency radiation on the job, where she programmed cellphones for new customers, had caused the tumor.
In May 2005, an administrative law judge who handles worker's compensation claims awarded her US$30,000- to pay her medical bills and other expenses. Price may be the first person to convince a judge that her illness was caused by radio-frequency radiation. The decision is unlikely to have widespread repercussions for the cellphone industry, however, because the settlement was small.
Price's customers at Advanced Communications Systems in northern California were doctors, firefighters, police departments and security departments for casinos, and she loved her work. She used a cellphone several hours each day, and the room in which she worked contained transmitters that emitted radio-frequency radiation, she said.
Price said when she filed a workers compensation claim, her boss fired her, eliminating her health insurance. Then she lost the case. The Native American single mother of two daughters was devastated. She turned to Tribal Health, a government health agency for Native Americans, to get anti-seizure medication.
"If I hadn't been Indian, I would have died," she said.
Her former boss, Dave Bohlen, said that he did not fire Price, that she quit based on her doctor's advice that she not return to work there. Bohlen said he dropped the insurance because she was no longer an employee. He called her worker's comp case "frivolous" and said there was no proof her tumor was caused by working in his small shop. "There's nothing harmful going on here," he said.
After Price recovered from brain surgery, she went to the Internet and found researchers studying the biological effects of radio-frequency radiation, and got to know them.
"I would call them up and say, 'You are absolutely dead on. If a rat could talk, this is what it would say. I'm the human rat.' "
Price couldn't find an attorney to take her case until she contacted Carl Hilliard, a semi-retired lawyer and president of the Wireless Consumers Alliance, a California-based consumer advocacy group. Hilliard volunteered to represent her "pro bono" and re-filed her workers comp case.
Hilliard said his group has represented cellphone users in issues involving poor service, billing problems and misrepresentations by cellphone service providers.
"We're the ones who filed a case saying federal law does not pre-empt state law [on consumer issues] and won that case four years ago," Hilliard said.
Hilliard brought in Dr. Nachman Brautbar, an occupational toxicologist and clinical professor of medicine at the University of Southern California School of Medicine, to review Price's medical records.
Brautbar has been an expert witness in a number of high-profile cases, including the chromium poisonings from polluted drinking water portrayed in the movie Erin Brockovich.
Brautbar reviewed Price's case and wrote a report supporting her claim that the tumor was caused by exposure to radio-frequency radiation.
"It's not a money issue, suing the company, it's a health and safety issue," said Price, who speaks to school assemblies and classes about the need to use a headset when talking on a cell phone. "We need to explain to people that just like putting on condoms, you have to take this precautionary measure to make the product be as safe as it can be."
You have a sophisticated body electronics system that is vital to its function. So don't allow yourself to be exposed to health risks invisibly imposed by EMF radiation from electric & magnetic fields and pulsed microwave transmission signals, which are at frequencies that disrupt your brain and cellular functions. Cellphone and cordless phone use does carry well-established risks! EMF stress occurs with all other electric and electronic devices, too. There are adverse health effects - see What Doctors Warn. Scientific studies have shown that EMF exposure has a cumulative effect, increasing over time. Be sure to reduce the risks for your children who face a lifetime of exposure and those with poorer health conditions, they are especially at risk. For an appreciation of this start at Child Risks.
Depletion of your body's bioenergy causes a lowered energetic capability, at a fundamental atomic level. See Atoms & EMF. Disturbance of it's inherent bioenergetic system results in disruptions to cellular functions and a compromised immune system. Start at Energy Systems. Quite simply, your body systems are no longer able to work in the way that they would if such destructive interference from EMR was not imposed on you. To see how human energies are affected by common electronic devices see bioenergy test charts showing patterns typical of that experienced by everyone from Human Tests.
If you can't understand why the authorities are allowing you to be exposed to such risks, start at my Research page. So-called "safety" regulations only consider thermal (tissue heating) effects, but frighteningly disregard low frequency biological effects. Strong vested interests resist change to this in spite of mounting evidence. For your own health and safety, and sustainable wellness, you need to adopt the Precautionary Principle with some urgency to avoid the risks of the invisible hazard of EMR that do compromise your health. You can now make use of the amazing new GIA Wellness protection available to reduce the effects of EMR, and have the chance to enjoy sustainable wellness. See GIA Wellness Protection Products.
Find out more so you can immediately protect yourself and achieve optimal health in our increasingly electropolluted world.
GET PROTECTION to avoid ADVERSE HEALTH EFFECTS and the CUMULATIVE EFFECTS.
Health and safety needs to be treated seriously. Be sure to get GIA Wellness (formerly Biopro Technology) protection for others that you care about, too. Tell others about my website and the wealth of information it provides so they can avail themselves of this and the amazing new Biopro protection against the adverse health risks of increasing exposure to EMF in our modern technological world.
INTERESTING STUFF? GET THE LATEST BY ADDING YOURSELF & OTHERS TO MY MAILER LIST ON MY BIOENERGY MAILERS PAGE
Others to assist in worthwhile protection enterprise?
Do you know of any enterprising people who care about others and may like to join with me in this worthwhile undertaking of providing protection to others from this growing EMF radiation hazard? You'll enjoy an additional income stream, too.
* Free Bioenergy test subject to product purchase and reasonable proximity to me or you pay travel costs, all at my discretion.
Other sections - [ EMF Dangers ] [ Significant EMF News ] [ EMF Danger articles ] [ Energy Systems ] [ Human-Tests ] [ Protection Products ] [ Research ] [ Feedback ]
E mail Tim Leitch here or use my Feedback page. Any hyperlink issues, please let me know by email. Thanks.
Always being enhanced.
Copyright © 2005-2012 Tim Leitch. Last modified: 13 Jul 2011
Any use of material from this site must include a clear link back to this website.
To Top