Frequently Asked Questions About UTI Treatment – Las Vegas Doctors & Medical Center Clinic Patient’s Choice Medical Center Means Affordable Health Care in Las Vegas.
Call us: (702) 474 6300
Praesent cursus
Semper sed
Proin varius
Home
Services
Testimonials
Specials
Resources
Anxiety
Depression
Diabetes
Erectile Dysfunction
General Medical Articles
Herpes
Hypertension/High Blood Pressure
Insominia
Low Testosterone
Seasonal Allergies
Shingles
Smoking Cessation
Thyroid Conditions
Weight Loss
Hours
FAQ
Cart
Frequently Asked Questions About UTI Treatment
Treatment Options for Different Thyroid Disorders
How Effective Are Intracorporeal Injections At Treating ED?
0
Published by admin at
Categories
General Medical Articles
Tags
Urinary tract infections are increasingly common, but they are also potentially dangerous if they are left untreated. Because they occur so commonly, there are a lot of misconceptions about how they develop and how they should be treated. Many people have grown up under the impression that home remedies can provide them with symptomatic relief, but research indicates that antibiotics are the most effective way to kill the source of the infection and prevent it from spreading further in the body. If you suffer from regular urinary tract infections, low cost clinics in Las Vegascan help to identify the source of the problem and recommend a long term prevention strategy to keep you healthy. Here are some frequently asked questions about UTIs and how they should be treated:
Why do UTIs affect women most often?
Women have shorter urethras than men, making it easier and quicker for an infection to be transferred. Men have longer urethras, so it is more difficult for the bacteria to travel up them and multiply. Men also have prostatic fluids with antibacterial properties that make them less likely to suffer from infections.
Are UTIs dangerous?
A UTI that is detected and treated early should present no further complications, but recurrent infections that do not get treated quickly enough may go on to cause kidney damage and can lead to kidney failure in the long term.
What are the risk factors for UTIs?
Women who use diaphragms for birth control are said to be at higher risk. People who have diabetes experience significant changes to their immune systems because of the high sugar levels in their blood, and may be prone to UTIs. People who have kidney stones and other obstructions that block the flow of urine in the urethra may get UTIs more frequently. Babies who are born with structural abnormalities of the urinary tract will also be susceptible to infection, and this will need to be corrected with surgery.
Is there any way to prevent a UTI?
General good hygiene and health can lower your chances of developing a UTI. You should drink lots of water to flush out toxins, at least one glass for every kilogram of your bodyweight. Taking vitamin C can make your urine more acidic and less likely to harbor bacteria. Women should wipe themselves from front to back and make sure they empty their bladders every two to three hours.
If you suffer from recurrent UTIs, low cost clinics in Las Vegas can help to determine the cause of your infections and the best way to manage it to give you long term relief.
admin
Related posts
What Everyone Should Know About Hepatitis C
Read more
New Treatments to Help Restore Stroke Patients to Their Normal Lifestyle
Read more
A New Way to Minimize the Risk of Breast Cancer
Read more
Home
Testimonials
Services / Fees
Resources
Specials
F.A.Q.s
Hours of Operation
Make Appointment
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Refund/Cancellation Policy
Contact Us
© COPYRIGHT 2018 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
2881 S Valley View Blvd, Las Vegas, NV 89102
Design: HBC