Orange Vegetable Trivia: Are Baby Carrots Good for You?
Skip to main content
Foodie Food Tips
Search
Search This Blog
Orange Vegetable Trivia: Are Baby Carrots Good for You?
Get link
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Other Apps
Are carrots really good for your eyes? Can the pigments in carrots turn you orange? Are prepackaged baby carrots actually baby carrots?
Carrot questions? Yes, I have heard a few, and I am here to give you the cold hard facts on this orange root vegetable. Rich in Beta-carotene and vitamin A while being low in calories carrots are actually available in a range of colors. So keep an eye out for the white, yellow, orange, red, and purple varieties. Served displayed together they make for an attractive buffet veggie tray.
Yes, carrots are good for your eyes and it is because they are rich in vitamin A. It is an essential vitamin for good health and without sufficient intake the body has a reduced ability to fight infections. Vitamin A deficiency is also the number one cause of night blindness and a lack of this nutrient can lead to severe eye damage and eventually to complete blindness. Beta carotene is now widely recognized as being an extremely important nutrient in good eye health.
Another important bit of information is that chemicals within cigarette smoke can cause a deficiency or reduction of vitamin A. Eating carrots on a daily basis may help to counteract this process but of course quitting smoking would be the ideal solution.
Can I turn orange if I eat a lot of carrots? It turns out that these pigments can indeed turn you orange if you consume an over abundance of them. Carrots are the proven best provider of carotenoids which are one of the many colored pigments found within the plants that we eat. Beta-carotene is a reddish orange pigment and is largely responsible for the coloring of foods which display this hue.
Carotenoid can also be found in animals or fish that consume sources of it. This pigment is largely responsible for the red, orange, or yellow coloring within these creatures. The pink coloring within salmon can be contributed to the salmon's ingestion of Carotenoids. People who eat large numbers of carrots have also been known to turn a little orange.
I have heard there is a diet that suggests we eat a variety of colors every day so is it a reliable method of insuring we get the right nutrition? I can't tell you if the color diet works but I can tell you that orange foods are good for you. We always knew that vegetables were good for us but now new studies on puts orange and yellow out front in the fight against cardiovascular disease. Even more impressive is the fact that carrots stood out from that color group as one of the best vegetable guardians for health heart.
Do carrots have antioxidants? Carotenoids are rich in antioxidants and those two little ingredients are very important to our overall health. Fortunately beta-carotene is the special little ingredient that make carrots so wonderful nutritious. A daily intake of Carotenoids is now considered to be a significant factor in reducing the risk of lung, bladder, cervix, prostate, colon, larynx, esophagus, or breast cancer.
Although we generally think of green vegetables as being associated with antioxidants, carrots are loaded with them too. Antioxidants are abundant within carrots and they are an important element when it comes to reducing our cancer risk. Antioxidants help slow down the natural aging processes by combining with the nasty free radicals within our body. By repairing damaged cells antioxidants help to slow down or prevent the onset of age related illnesses such as arthritis, cancer, and cardiovascular disease. The free radicals once complete again are no longer causing cell death within the body.
Now for the facts on pre-packaged baby carrots vs regular carrots. Baby carrots have been causing quite a controversy lately with folks wondering if they really are just chopped up larger carrots. Another rumor hitting the streets is that these little baby carrots are doused in chemicals to lock in their sweet flavor.
Well I am here to offer up a few facts about those packages of baby carrots you can purchase at your local supermarket grocer. Those tiny carrots did start off as large carrots that were then shaped into smaller chunks to resemble a younger vegetable.
Farmers used to throw away broken or cull carrots until one farmer decided to change that by whittling the damaged vegetables into a smaller shape. These two inch carrots were a hit and created a market for the carrots that had previously been discarded or used as animal feed.
Today most of the bags of baby carrots that we buy are actually a distinct breed of carrot that was created exactly for their current purpose. They are bred to be super sweet and smaller in size than standard carrots. Picked young they are the standard for baby carrots today.
Now for an answer to the chemical question that is becoming a concern of many consumers. Most precut foods are sterilized to prevent contamination and that is also the case with baby carrots. They are dunked into a chlorine bleach bath, rinsed, and packaged in a similar manner to other pre-cut vegetables.If this process is of concern then I recommend that you go back to purchasing the standard supermarket carrots and peel and cut them yourself.
Are carrots bad for you because they are high in sugar? If you are on a diet don't worry about gaining a lot of weight if you munch on a few. Go ahead and slice up a cup for a snack there are only about 52 calories per cup of raw diced or sliced carrots.
Yes, carrots have sugar in them but most vegetables do. The good news is that it is a natural sugar and it won't add the pounds onto you like the sugar in a candy bar will. With plenty of fiber and complex carbs you can relax that your weight loss plan won't go into reverse when you grab this vegetable to snack on.
Have you wondered how to cook carrots to maintain their nutrition. Many vegetables lose some of their nutrition into the surrounding water when they are boiled so steaming is generally one of the best ways to cook these vitamin rich foods. Fortunately there are also many other ways to cook vegetables in order to maintain all the great nutrition that they have stored inside them.
Cooking carrots in soups and stews is an excellent way to keep vitamins and minerals from disappearing when you cook them in water. Soups and stews are highly nutritious for a reason. The vitamins seeping from the cooking vegetables stay in the liquid they are cooked in resulting in a vitamin rich broth. These dishes are also delicious to consume.
Carrot cake is another great way to lock the nutrients into the food you eat. It is an absolutely yummy way to get your vitamin A and Carotenoids and even the kids won't realize they are being tricked into eating their vegetables.
Other beta-carotene rich foods are sweet potato, squash, red sweet peppers, cantaloupe melon, tomato, broccoli, and dark leafy greens such as spinach, kale, and dandelion greens.
Related Articles by Lorelei Cohen
What are Nightshade Plants
Recycling Green Tea Leaves
Cauliflower Potato Salad: All the Flavour but a Diet Version
Got Animals in the Garden? It Happens.
Decorative Glass Mason Jars for Holiday Gift Giving
Safest Cookware Material: Steel Stoneware Glass Cast Iron or Non Stick?
Get link
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Other Apps
Motivational Posters
by Lorelei Cohen
Popular Posts
The Best Apple is
Let's take a peek at the best apple for baking, the most popular one for flavour, and which one is the best overall for each function you may require it for.
Most varieties of apple contain about the same nutrition, calories, vitamins, and minerals so what sets these fruits apart are the factors which individualize them in taste, texture, and best quality for the job at hand.
Which apple is the best or the most popular apple depends on whether you want the fruit for baking, eating, its health benefits, or its individual plant characteristics. Our personal preferences determine some of our choice but the uniqueness of each variety of apple is what largely makes it best suited to fulfill a specific function. Apples grow in a variety of climates and most can be eaten raw or cooked.
There are around 7500 types with about 2500 of those varieties being grown in the United States so you really do have quite a variety of fruit to sift through for your favorites. If you are interested in dis…
Most Filling Foods: Satiety List
A diet can be one of the most frustrating things that a person can participate in. Losing weight is a difficult process.
Feeling hungry and denying those urges can be a real test of willpower. You wind up sitting in a corner all by your grumpy old self sipping herbal tea and munching on a stick of celery to stave off the traumatic effects of self induced starvation.
Fortunately there are studies being done that can help us be more successful in our weight loss attempts. One of the newest directions is research into filling foods in the hope that these foods could help to reduce our need to snack or over eat. They could satisfy our cravings and help us to feel full for a longer period of time so there would be less need to break our diet.
We now know that there are a number of physical and emotional factors involved in the dieting process. When we attempt to lose weight we not only do battle with the bulge but we must attempt to rationalize the whole process with a brain that is only too …
Foods That Can Cause Inflammation
The foods you consume do make a difference to your health. There are definitely foods that can cause an inflammatory response in the body.
Eating a variety of foods in just the right quantities should keep your body healthy and working in top condition. At least this is how the system is supposed to work but unfortunately there are times when things can and will go wrong.
People need food to fuel their body but sometimes the foods which should be good for your body can actually cause you to become ill from their ingestion. If you continue to consume these foods then this illness can become chronic. This is the theory that rests behind some forms of autoimmune based illness and arthritis.
How well do you know your foods? There are two foods in the opening photo that are more likely to increase inflammation. Can you guess which 2 they are? Give your best guess then find the correct answer at the foot of this article.
1. Hamburger and peas.
2. Hamburger and yam.
3. Hamburger and white potat…
How to Blanch Swiss Chard for Freezing
Swiss Chard is a nutrient rich dark leafy green vegetable. It is quite a hardy garden crop and comes in both a red stalk and a white stalk variety. Both of the Swiss Chard varieties are high in nutrients and low in calories.
This vegetables grows throughout the summer and fall season so you can generally enjoy it fresh from the garden for quite a lengthy growing season. It can be harvested throughout the summer months by picking the larger leaves for individual meals and allowing the smaller leaves to continue growing till the final harvest. Using this method you can have quite a large harvest of this nutritious leafy vegetable. The main crop in late fall is still very bountiful and can be blanched and put in the freezer for meals throughout the winter.
When storing vegetables for the freezer it is important to blanch vegetables as this will help them maintain their optimum nutrition, colour, and flavour.
Blanching locks all that wonderful goodness inside and helps to preserve it there…
Antioxidant Foods: How They Help You Stay Young
Products containing antioxidants are being loudly touted as super foods. They are the foods we are encouraged to consume in this new health conscious millennium.
Promoted as the key to naturally staying young they help keep us healthy and provide us with a long life if we consume them on a regular basis. These nutrient rich foods can slow down our aging processes and help to prevent age related illness and disability. Sounds like a wonder drug doesn't it?
Yet even with all the promotion given to these foods many people still don't understand what antioxidants are or how they work within the body to keep us healthy. To clear up a little of this confusion let's take a little peek at one of our most highly promoted foods for good health. Broccoli it is loved, hated, and always the brunt of jokes when it comes to foods that are good for you.
For years we have been advised to consume broccoli but the reasoning as to why we should eat it has been a little smudgy at best. For most…
Natural Home Remedies for Constipation
Using an over the counter or prescription laxative on a regular basis is not generally a healthy way to control constipation. Unfortunately suffering from a painful bout of this condition is not something that anyone looks forward to either.
Fortunately there are safer ways to get regular than to dose your body with chemicals. Many common foods act as natural laxatives and all that you have to do to make your body happy is to consume them on a regular basis.
You may be a little surprised at which foods are the best home remedies for that slow moving intestinal system of yours. Many of these natural treatments are common foods that are sitting in your kitchen cupboard or fridge just waiting to used. Let's take a peek at some of the best natural laxatives available for your personal use.
Experiencing a slowed down digestive system can mean that you are not eating appropriately. First in the line up of natural defences against constipation is fibre. It is a very important ingredient in …
Food That is Good for Your Brain
If your mind is performing sluggishly, underachieving, and tossing away brain cells faster than a shopaholic counting out coins at a blue light sale then you may need to add into your diet plan some foods that are known for their positive effect on brain health.
Studies are suggesting that there are indeed specific nutrients that your brain requires to keep it working at peak performance. When it comes to keeping your brain happy and healthy there truly are good foods and bad foods that you should be aware of.
What you eat can affect your cognitive functioning throughout the day. So if you want to get your brain pretending it is Einstein then sharpen up a pencil and get ready to prepare a grocery list of food items that your brain wants you to go shopping for. These are the foods that feed your mind.
So which foods are the best for your brain health? First on your shopping list should be Omega 3-fats. These are fats which are very important for keeping the brain healthy and working at t…
Powered by Blogger