The Grapefruit Effect - No Limits Fitness
No Limits Fitness
Home
Services
Boot Camp
Nutrition Coaching PN
Body Composition Testing
Free Week Trial
Schedule
Testimonials
Resources
Blog
Client Spotlight
Fitness
Mindset
Nutrition
About
Contact
The Grapefruit Effect
Have you every heard of the Grapefruit Effect?
Not to worry…grapefruit is good for you!
It’s a vitamin C-rich citrus fruit that’s low in sugar and contains vitamin A, potassium, and fiber. It has a low glycemic index and does not spike your blood sugar when you eat it. The pink and red varieties also contain lycopene.
It’s definitely a nutritious health-promoting food.
It even had a whole weight-loss diet created around it – the “grapefruit diet!” Research has proven that grapefruit doesn’t have any magical weight loss properties, so don’t eat it just to lose weight.
But…
There is something you need to know about grapefruit if you take medications.
Grapefruit-Medication Interaction
Grapefruit enhances the effects of many medications – over 85 at last count; this is sometimes called the “grapefruit effect.” Taking grapefruit (or its juice) along with certain medications – even a day apart – can increase the risk of side effects.
For example, when taken with certain blood pressure lowering medications it lowers blood pressure too much. This causes lightheadedness and other symptoms.
Another example is when taken with certain birth control pills, women have a higher risk of blood clots.
Grapefruit affects the metabolism of some of the following categories of medications:
Blood pressure
Birth control
Chemotherapy
Anti-infection
Cholesterol-lowering
Immunosuppressive and anti-rejection
Urinary tract agents
Some
over-the-counter cough medication
When the medication is taken within 24-72 hours of consuming grapefruit or its juice (yes, up to three days later!), there can be an interaction and potential side effect. In fact, for half of the medications affected, the grapefruit effect can be serious. Serious effects include heart and muscle issues and kidney toxicity, just to name a few.
How does this even happen, and why is grapefruit special?
How does grapefruit interact with medications?
Grapefruit (as well as Seville oranges, limes, and pomelos) contain a compound called “furanocoumarin.” It’s this compound that inhibits (stops) an enzyme in our gut (enzyme CYP 3A4) from working properly.
When working properly, this enzyme breaks down and metabolizes many compounds we ingest, including dozens of medications.
When the enzyme is inhibited, like when we’ve consumed grapefruit, this slows down the enzyme. This leads to slowing down of the rate these medications are metabolized and eliminated from the body.
If you slow down metabolism and elimination, this leads to higher than normal levels of medications in the blood – up to 137% higher! This “enhances” their effect and can cause those side effects.
When medications are prescribed at certain doses to be taken in certain time frames, this is based on the medication being metabolized normally – not way-too-slowly.
If you need to replace grapefruit or its juice in your diet, try another fruit or vegetable. Or, talk with your doctor about swapping for another medication that’s not affected by grapefruit.
Conclusion
Since one glass of grapefruit juice can affect the enzyme’s function for over 24-hours, it’s advisable to stop eating the grapefruit or drinking its juice altogether while you’re taking certain medications.
If you love eating grapefruit or drinking its juice and are taking medications, definitely speak with your doctor or pharmacist to see if this affects you. Many medications are not metabolized by this enzyme, and even if they are, this grapefruit effect may not pose a serious risk for all of those medications.
So, now that you know grapefruit’s little secret go find out if you’re affected.
Do you know someone who loves grapefruit or its juice, and is taking medications that have the grapefruit effect? Share this post to let them know that they should double-check with their doctor or pharmacist before enjoying this awesome fruit.
Recipe (Tangy Citrusy): Non-Grapefruit Juice
Serves 2
2 cups pineapple, peeled & chopped
1 cup cucumber, washed & chopped
1 lemon, peeled
Instructions
Juice pineapple, cucumber and lemon.
Serve over ice & enjoy!
Tip: Top with fresh mint leaves.
References:
http://www.cmaj.ca/content/cmaj/early/2012/11/26/cmaj.120951.full.pdf
http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/fn-an/nutrition/fiche-nutri-data/nutrient_value-valeurs_nutritives-tc-tm-eng.php
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grapefruit_diet
https://nutritionfacts.org/video/tell-your-doctor-if-you-eat-grapefruit/
https://www.precisionnutrition.com/rr-grapefruit-diet
Categories
Categories Select Category Blog Client Spotlight Fitness Mindset Nutrition Testimonials
APPLY NOW
You Won’t Be Sorry…
7 Ways to Reduce Belly Bloat
Discover our 7 best tips to reduce Belly Bloat.
Learn about natural remedies for relief!
First Name
Email Address
Let’s Get Connected…
Email
Facebook
Instagram
RSS
Copyright © 2019 · No Limits Fitness · 2450 Minton Rd, West Melbourne, FL 32904 · Phone: 321-952-9470
Terms and Conditions · Privacy Policy
Built By InControl Websites · Log in
*Individual Results may vary. No Limits Fitness recommends that you consult with your physician before beginning this or any exercise program. This site offers health, fitness and nutritional information and is designed for educational purposes only.