MRI scan Miami Archives - Center for Diagnostic Imaging
Call Us Toll Free
1 (800) 371.0002
Home » Blog » How Early Detection Helps In Treating Breast Cancer?
Home
ABOUT
About Us
Radiologists
DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES
CT & CTA
Nuclear Medicine
Breast MRI
PET/CT Scan
Ultrasound
X-Rays
PATIENTS
Financing Options
Insurance Information
Preparation for Exams
Request an Appointment
Testimonials
LOCATIONS
AVENTURA
NORTH MIAMI BEACH
SOUTH DADE
BLOG
DIGITAL MEDICAL IMAGING
DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES
PREVENTIVE SERVICES
PATIENTS
LOCATION
BREAST CARE
ABOUT CBCC
SERVICES
PATIENTS
SELF EXAMINATION
FACTS
3D MAMMOGRAM
LOCATIONS
CONTACT
Tag Archives: MRI scan Miami
CDI Miami | Monday April 15, 2019
How Early Detection Helps In Treating Breast Cancer?
When any women see any abnormality in the breast, she should go for screening to find the reason behind it. Detection at an early stage of any issue could prevent serious consequences. However, screening could not finish breast cancer, but with early detection, one can start taking therapies and proper medication. Ask your breast specialist in Miami doctor regarding which screenings is suitable for your age.
The latest 3D mammogram is used to diagnose either the lumps are cancer or something else. This advanced technology is very efficient and accurate in detecting breast cancer.
It is important to visit a doctor if you notice any change in your breast. Any pain or change in size and shape of the breast could be a sign of breast cancer. Consulting a doctor will clear your doubts and recommend appropriate screening as per your age and condition.
Usually Recommended Tests For Breast Cancer
The most preferred screening test is a mammogram and highly recommended to detect breast cancer at an earlier stage. Regular mammogram ensures that nobody dies of breast cancer or any issues in breasts.
MRI scan Miami is also widely used to diagnose breast cancer. This method is conducted using radio and magnetic waves to take some pictures of the breast. It is generally done with a mammogram for more accurate findings. Women at higher risk should go for it to detect it in the initial stages.
Doctors conduct a clinical breast exam to see any change in the breast or feel the lumps. If doctors notice any abnormality, they suggest you go for a mammogram. This is usually the first thing a patient does when she notices any abnormality.
How Can Women Lessen The Chances Of Breast Cancer?
Physically active women are at less risk of cancer. Regular walk or some activity keeps women away from various ailments. Generally, women gain weight after menopause which puts them on a higher risk of cancer. Normal weight avoids risks of any disease of breast cancer. In addition to this, women taking hormone replacements are at higher risk of cancer. Birth control pills consumptions also raise the risk of cancer that is the reason it is recommended to take them after consulting a doctor.
When women in her 30s breastfeed the chances of cancer or other abnormalities in the body increases. Women at higher risk of breast cancer due to genes are suggested not to be pregnant after 30.
Conclusion
Whenever you notice any change in your breasts, see a doctor. Visiting the nearby diagnostic medical imaging Miami will give an insight of reason behind this abnormality and clear every doubt regarding it. Moreover, the early detection of breast cancer will help in timely treatment and lessen its side effects too.
Share
Tags: breast specialist in Miami, diagnostic medical imaging Miami, MRI scan Miami
CDI Miami | Thursday March 21, 2019
Suffering from any abnormal brain conditions? Head MRI can help you detect the cause
If you are suffering from certain brain conditions, your doctor may suggest you for MRI of the head portion. Head MRI is a painless and non-invasive procedure that generates images of the brain and brain stem. These images are quite detailed and help doctors detect the underlying cause of the abnormal conditions occurring in the body. MRI Miami creates pictures of the brain with the help of magnetic field and radio waves.
This scan is different from a CT scan and x-ray as it does not use radiation to generate the images. Pictures are created in 3-D form as this scan combines different images to create the one detailed image. The internal structures of the brain are detected carefully thus it is a more effective procedure than other scans as it can even see through the small sections of the brain such as brain stem and pituitary gland. Sometimes a dye or a contrast agent is given to the patient that helps in better visualization of some brain abnormalities.
Following conditions can necessitate for MRI
There are certain brain conditions, which must be detected before they turn into any serious disease. These abnormal conditions may include tumors, cysts, infections, hormonal disorders, brain stroke, spinal cord injuries, blood vessel issues, etc. The doctor may also recommend head MRI if you are suffering from symptoms such as weakness, seizures, severe headache, dizziness, behavioral changes, and blurred vision.
MRI scan Miami can also detect whether you sustained any injury or harm from a stroke. Also, people who are supposed to undergo brain surgery can also go for functional MRI of the brain. This type of MRI is responsible to identify areas of the brain that control body movement and speech functions.
Things you must know before going for an MRI
Before undergoing an MRI scan, you must share certain things with your doctor such as if you have inner ear embeds, pacemakers, vascular stents, or artificial joints in your body. The medical staff in the MRI lab can also ask you if you have ever got injured with metal shrapnel. These things can affect the MRI scan so it is crucial that you must discuss such kind of conditions with your doctor.
Pacemakers and implants can stop functioning properly due to the powerful magnetic field used in MRI scan. You may be asked to remove any kind of metal items from your body such as jewelry, watch, or sunglasses etc. As metals hinder the smooth process of taking images hence they are asked to remove before an MRI scan. In case you are claustrophobic, the radiologist may conduct open MRI Miami that can be tolerable for you.
Share
Tags: MRI Miami, MRI scan Miami, open MRI Miami
CDI Miami | Thursday March 7, 2019
How Is Diagnostic Imaging Helping In Improving Public Health?
With the advancements in medical science, doctors can diagnose any disease using various diagnostic imaging procedures to know the exact issue. There are a number of tools being used by the doctors to detect any ailment in the body. Through CT scan Miami, doctors can take the pictures of the body, for early detection of any disorder in the body. Diagnostic imaging comprises of X-rays, MRI, CT-Scans, PET-Scans and many more. Though MRI is considered as the most dependable diagnostic medical imaging and in this procedure, radio waves and the magnetic field is used to see from end to end in the human body.
Diagnostic Imaging For X-Rays
People having any bone issues are recommended by the doctor to get an X-ray, to see the images of calcium inside the body whereas MRI is used to see the images of tissues which are made of water inside the body.
Through MRI, the radiologists take and store these high-resolution images of a number of tissues and organs which cannot be taken by an X-ray. It is very suitable to identify the disorders which are affecting the soft tissues inside the body. With MRI scan Miami, doctors can see tumors developing in any part of the body from the initial stages which if cured on time, saves a life. The comprehensive detection of MRI helps the doctors in detecting the exact position of damaged ligaments or soft tissues, making them treat the right location. In addition to this, internal organs such as brain, heart and digestive system, joint disease or injury, and spinal injury can be thoroughly examined which is not possible when an X-ray is taken.
Why Diagnostic Medical Imaging Is The Best Option?
Diagnostic imaging also termed as radiology, is the technique used to see through the body parts. With the increasing medical advancements, there are a number of choices with the health professionals to identify any abnormality in the body.
It is very important to get medical imaging which is proficient enough to diagnose the ailment in your body. Only a radiologist can suggest a procedure centered on the problem or symptom of the patient’s ailment. Diagnostic imaging has improved the public health with a number of people being diagnosed at an early stage and the accurate analysis, ongoing monitoring has helped the doctors in the effective treatment of various diseases and then see how the treatment has impacted their tissues.
Share
Tags: CT scan Miami, Diagnostic imaging, MRI scan Miami
CDI Miami | Monday February 11, 2019
MRI- a better diagnostic tool for detecting the underlying problems
With the evolving technological era, medical diagnostic tools and procedures are also taking a new way to deal with the issues inside the body. Nowadays, there are numerous procedures that help the doctors diagnose the diseases early and give them a chance to cure them on time.
Some of the procedures include MRI, CT-Scans, X-rays, PET-Scans etc. However, MRI is one of the most reliable diagnostic medical imaging procedures that use magnetic field and radio waves to see through the body.
If you are facing any bone issues, X-rays are good at it as it takes images of the calcium inside the body, however, MRI Scan images water which is more useful as the tissues inside the body are made up of water. So this helps the radiologist to take high-resolution images of various organs and tissues which might not be possible with the X-ray.
When it’s important to go for an MRI?
An MRI Scan is useful when there’s a need to diagnose the conditions that affects the soft tissues inside the body. This might include detecting tumors in various parts of the body, damaged ligaments or injuries in the soft tissues, a joint disease or injury, spinal injury or diagnosing the internal organs such as brain, heart, and digestive system.
Thus, MRI Scan Miami have proven to be very successful in providing the detailed images of the soft tissues inside but in case of bone tissues they are not much effective. This is the reason why bone injuries are always investigated with the X-rays.
MRI Scan is a safe procedure however the complications may arise such as if you have worn some metal objects during the scan, it might cause injury, sometimes, the magnetic field might damage the internal heart pacemaker or in other case the patient might be allergic to the contrast dye injected to get a clearer image of the body parts.
Share any medical conditions before undergoing an MRI Scan
v
You should tell your doctor in case you have any metal implants inside your body as they may get damaged with the magnetic rays. Well the affects of MRI on fetus are unknown, however, if you are pregnant you must tell it to your doctor. The other factors that need to be considered include fasting before getting an MRI Miami, which means you will be advised not to drink or eat at least 4 to 5 hrs before undergoing the Scan.
Also, tell your doctor if you are claustrophobic so in that case the doctor may give you some medication to make you relax during the procedure.
Share
Tags: diagnostic medical imaging, MRI Miami, MRI scan Miami
CDI Miami | Thursday January 17, 2019
Advantages Of Open MRI Over Traditional MRI
Magnetic resonance imaging abbreviated as MRI is a non-invasive imaging procedure that practices a mixture of a large magnet, radio frequencies, along with the computer to produce images of internal structures and organs of the body without practicing x-ray radiation and surgery.
An MRI Miami machine is a large tube-shaped machine executing through the magnet from front to end. The magnet develops a strong magnetic field encircling the patient and passes pulses of radio waves from the scanner. These waves push the nuclei of hydrogen atoms out of their normal position. As the nuclei readjust into their normal position they send out radio waves on their own. The computers or the scanners detect these signals and examine and transform them into pictures with minute particulars of the part of the body being analyzed. MRI scans are now extensively used to analyze organs, identify tumors and in the diagnosis of many forms of cancer and wounds in bones and tissues.
Benefits OF Open MRI
One of the predominant benefits of open MRI of south Miami over traditional MRIs deceits in its sleek and compact design which has made it more spacious and less restraining. This new diagnostic equipment is tremendously beneficial to patients who may be large in size and those who are claustrophobic. Not only does it offers a more comfortable environment for patients but also makes it relaxed and convenient for them to undertake the scan.
Distinguished Characteristics Of Open MRI
Though both types of MRI scan Miami operate along the same lines, the open MRI device is more influential than its predecessor. Its boosted imaging technology renders hi-definition pictures in 3-D cross-section that can help a physician to regulate the medical condition troubling the patient.
They produce a lesser degree of noise in the form of knocking or thumping and patients usually don’t necessitate earplugs. In most cases patients don’t need to administer a contrast agent; this is particularly true in the case of a liver scan. Children who may have anxiety in undertaking the scan can have their parent or guardian alongside them.
High Accuracy and Early Recognition
The benefits of open MRI over traditional MRIs are unrivaled, particularly when it comes to the patient’s safety and ease. The parameters of the sophisticated device can be altered for a detailed view of the area which necessitates scanning. Physicians suggest open MRI owing to its high correctness which assists in early detection of serious circumstances such as cancer and tumors.
Share
Tags: MRI Miami, MRI scan Miami, open MRI of South Miami
CDI Miami | Wednesday January 16, 2019
An Insight into MRI Scan
For any individual their health should be the first preference, keeping the rest aside. This suggests taking healthy diet, regular exercise, and acquiring sufficient sleep each night. Conversely, sometimes even pursuing these three things is not adequate, which is why a person should visit the doctor at least once a year. A preventative scan, like an MRI scan Miami, might be practiced in order to regulate whether or not a person has a medical situation.
Short for Magnetic Resonance Imaging, this scan is a way to check the body for several irregularities without using dyes or the harmful radiation that usually x rays use.
An MRI scan practices computer technology as well as radio waves to scan the body and generate pictures. These pictures are deemed to be very detailed, which of course assists the technician along with the doctor to regulate irregularities that persist.
Who Should Avoid An MRI Scan?
As advanced as an MRI Miami scan is in respect to the technology that it practices, it is very vital to note that there are some kinds of people who should not undergo this scan. For example, people with pacemakers should avert this scan because the magnetic field that the scan builds can cause the pacemaker to malfunction. Also, this scan should be averted by people who have several kinds of implants, particularly ones that contain metal, for the same cause.
How Can The Scan Be Effective?
In order to effectively prepare for this process, the patient will require arriving at the facility wearing apparel that is totally metal free. This also is accurate for any accessories that a person might be wearing that have metal in them, for example hearing aids or glasses. All of these things will have to be detached prior to the scan. That is basically the only thing that a person has to do in order to efficiently prepare for the MRI Miami beach scan since for this process there are not any food limitations.
However, the person will be exposed to the magnetic field in just the same way as the patient, so it is very vital that the person also avert wearing anything with metal. They should also be free of any other circumstances that might prove damaging to them if they come in contact with the magnetic field. These are some aspects associated with MRI scans and the reasons why your physician suggests the same.
Share
Tags: MRI Miami, MRI Miami beach, MRI Scan, MRI scan Miami
CDI Miami | Thursday January 10, 2019
PET Scans – New Revolution in Treating Cancer
PET scans or Positron Emission Tomography scans execute essential imaging function and very useful in tracking some of the diseases. It is practiced for the detection of cancer and determination of the tumor cell spread. It’s used in the mapping of the brain and heart functioning with the analysis of the blood which flows in these areas helping in evaluating and analyzing the myocardial infarction and ischemia effects on patients after the cardiac surgery. Pet Scan Miami is also used in assessing management protocol for brain abnormalities, disorders in the central nervous system and seizures.
IMPORTANCE OF PET SCAN
PET/CT scans in functioning are quite different from MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging). The studies reflect that the PET/CT scan is very effective in the determination of the extent & spread of the malignancies when compared with the whole body MRI. MRI Scan Miami gives a view of internal organs in a 3D format while a PET/CT scan combines the nuclear imaging capability which also shows functional attributes of the internal organs. Information on functional metabolism aids the doctors in determining and staging the malignancies.
In PET scans, the radiotracer, a radioactive matter, is injected into the body which accumulated around the affected organ for examination. Tracer emits gamma rays and offers the details of the affected internal organ with metabolic and chemical activity. The concentration of that radioactive matter relies on the metabolic activity which aids in staging and identification of the exact location of the tumor.
PET scans assist in diagnosing serious diseases so they have to be very expansive. Different countries of the world have distinct rates of PET scans. In the international destinations for medical tourism, a full body CT scan will charge 1/3rd of what it costs in the USA and other developed countries. Many people from these developed countries head to the countries which offer PET and CT scan at the cheapest rate. Countries like Jordon, Turkey, South Korea, and India are among the few nations which serve these facilities at low prices.
CONCLUSION
PET scanning which is capable of tracking the physiological functions of tissue cells helps in the diagnosis of cancer, heart disease, and brain disorder. It is the equipment which can track the condition of such serious patients so you must be wondering it is an expensive treatment to go for but you may also adopt low-cost PET scanning and CT scan Miami abroad.
Share
Tags: CT scan Miami, MRI scan Miami, PET scan Miami
CDI Miami | Tuesday December 4, 2018
Facts you should know before undergoing an MRI Scan
MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) Scan is an examination that is carried out to take the detailed pictures of the inside organs of the body through strong magnetic and radio waves. It is generally used to diagnose the underlying cause of some symptoms happening in your body. Usually, the area of chest, abdomen or pelvis is scanned during an MRI scan Miami. Pregnant women may also undergo this scan for safely monitoring the baby.
Why you should go for an MRI?
MRI Scanning is performed to examine the organs of the abdomen and the chest which includes heart, liver, spleen, kidneys, pancreas, and adrenal glands. The pelvic organs are also monitored such as bladders, uterus, and ovaries in females and prostate glands in the males. Blood vessels and lymph nodes are also evaluated including the MR angiography.
The physicians usually conduct the MRI scanning to diagnose the tumors of the chest, abdomen or pelvis, the diseases of the liver and abnormalities in the pancreas or bile ducts.
In case you are going through inflammatory bowel disease like Crohn’s disease or ulcers in the stomach or colon, facing heart problems etc. you must go through an MRI Scan that might be an answer to all your problems.
There are various MRI centers in Miami where they use highly sophisticated equipment installed with the latest technology and machines.
What are the pros and cons of a MRI scan?
• From years, MRI is known to diagnose a wide range of conditions such as cancer, heart disease, abnormalities in muscles and bones.
• MRI is a technique that does not harm you as they do not use ionizing radiation.
• MRI allows the discovery of the diseases that might be hindered by bones or other scanning methods.
• In case sedation is used during an MRI, it might be risky for you. But the nurse will supervise your vital signs to reduce the risk.
• If contrast intravenous is given, the physician recommends the women that they should not breastfeed the babies for 24 to 48 hours otherwise it will be harmful to the baby as well as the mother.
MRI Miami provides high-quality images with proper diagnoses report. You must make yourself perfectly still and follow the instructions given by the nurse while the images are being recorded.
Although there is no case that MRI harms the fetus the pregnant women are advised not go through it unless medically prescribed.
Share
Tags: MRI centers in Miami, MRI Miami, MRI scan Miami
CDI Miami | Wednesday November 28, 2018
Finding the Adequate Diagnostic center for MRI Procedure
An MRI procedure is a medical imaging procedure that can help in identifying severe health issues that require adequate treatment. But have you ever thought that the correct choice of a diagnostic center affects the overall quality of your MRI Scan Miami? Well, if not, this post would surely make you think the same!
There are a lot of people who are affected by some disease and their medical reports may depict everything normal. This could be a serious issue when you are facing severe pain. It is always a great decision to rely on the ones that have a great reputation in the market as the leading diagnostic imaging Miami center. Thus; it is your responsibility to check the overall market reputation of the service provider that can offer you the desired medical imaging services. Here are some ways you can check the proficiency of the service provider.
Always check the official website and go through the certifications
It is strongly recommended that you should check the certification of the service provider on their website. This would help you in getting the desired information about their overall experience in the same domain. Also, you can consult the physician regarding the choice of an MRI scan service provider that can harmonize your needs. This is a great option as your physician knows better about these promising service providers that are capable of delivering the finest services.
Apart from this, visiting the official website also enables you to check the services that you can get from a medical imaging center. There are some patients that would eventually require special services that lend a hand in getting the tests done precisely. You only need to seek help from the professionals of the same field.
Check Reviews and Ratings
Another great way to get the details about the diagnostic medical imaging service provider is to explore the internet and check the reviews and ratings about the same. There are a lot of online portals that can offer you the right information about the service providers in a particular area that could be quite helpful if you are looking for the best medical imaging agency.
The feedback offered by the patients is quite helpful when you are looking for the best in a class service provider that can offer you the best out of their medical radio imaging practices.
Share
Tags: diagnostic imaging Miami, diagnostic medical imaging, MRI scan Miami
CDI Miami | Wednesday October 24, 2018
How to Shun Your Anxiety while you are going for an MRI or CT Scan Procedure
Several people get nervous when they hear about any of the imaging scan procedures. This is quite obvious if you are unaware about the procedure but can be quite severe when you are about to go for the imaging scan procedure like an MRI Miami scan. Your physician would surely suggest some solution for the same and eventually won’t begin the MRI procedure until you are normal.
Sometimes you just can’t control your fear of visiting a radiologist, which is the reason you have to face certain issues that may affect your blood pressure and heartbeat. It is always a wise decision to talk to your physician regarding the same in advance. This would not only help you in getting the right treatment but eventually let you get the right diagnosis services. Here are some of the effective ways that would help you in shunning your stress when you are visiting a center for diagnostic imaging.
Consult Your Doctor in Advance
It would be a nice decision to talk to your doctor regarding the symptoms that you witness when you face a certain situation or think about visiting a radiologist. There are a lot of people that have a phobia of facing their doctor, which is the reason you need to focus on telling the entire situation to your doctor.
There could be chances that your doctor would offer you the best solution regarding your issues. Apart from this, it is always a rewarding decision to seek help from the radiologists that perform any of the imaging scan procedures.
Take some Sedatives
It is good to take some sedatives before the procedure that would help you in relaxing and getting ready for the procedure. Sometimes mild sedatives can do wonders in calming you down but it is recommended to consult your physician regarding the medications that you are already taking so that it doesn’t cause any issues when you are consuming the sedatives.
Visit your Physician Frequently
You just can’t ignore the fact that visiting your doctor and talking to them about the overall procedure could eventually lessen your stress levels. The MRI scan Miami is a procedure that sometimes requires adequate precautions that you need to know. This could be the reason for your frequent visits to the radiologist or the physician that would eventually lessen your fear.
Share
Tags: Center for Diagnostic Imaging, MRI Miami, MRI Procedure, MRI scan Miami
Post navigation
← Older posts
Follow/Review
CENTERS FOR DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING ® - CALL US Toll Free 1.800.371.0002
Visit our sister companies for additional imaging services Digital Medical Imaging - Comprehensive Breast Care Centers
Proud of being a 100% digital medical facility.
©2019 CDI - Dr Eric Godreau. All rights reserved. Web Design by TelxWeb
7ads6x98y