Anal Skin Tag - Pictures, Removal, Symptoms, Causes, Treatment | Diseases Lab
Diseases Lab
Info
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Skin Diseases
Tattoo Infection
Skin Infections
Infected Piercing
You are here: Home / Info / Anal Skin Tag – Pictures, Symptoms, Causes, Treatment
Anal Skin Tag – Pictures, Symptoms, Causes, Treatment
June 21, 2015 By Dr.Thulasi Leave a Comment
How To Remove Anal Skin Tags ?
Anal skin tags also known as rectal tags are commonly seen in men and women. They are harmless growths around the anus and are often mistaken for piles or warts. Anal tags are not contagious but they can cause risk to cleanliness. It can cause irritation around the anus region and it can also rub with tight clothing to cause irritation. Anal tags can be easily removed by cryotherapy or burning. Anal skin tags are small flap of tissue that projects from the skin surface in the anus region. They look like small lesions and differ in size.
Symptoms :
Anal skin tags resembles like a flap of tissue or lesions that hangs off the skin. It is attached to the skin by a tiny stalk. They are often red in color or brownish red. They do not cause any pain but sometimes can cause irritation. Many times anal skin tags are mistaken for hemorrhoids.
Causes :
Exact cause of formation of anal skin tags is not known. Any individual can get skin tags irrespective of age or sex. It is more common in people who are overweight and who have bowel disease. Pregnant women are at high risk of developing skin tags due to imbalance in hormones. Skin tags are believed to be genetic and run in family.
Tests :
Anal skin tags can be detected easily by mere physical exam. But often it remains unnoticed since it does not cause any pain.
Images, Pics, Photos and Pictures of Anal Skin Tag :
Treatment :
Make sure that anal tags are not malignant growths from your doctor. Several home remedies are available to remove anal tags. But it is not advisable to remove them on your own since anal area is prone to bleeding. Your doctor can remove anal tags by freezing it or burning them. He would apply drop of liquid nitrogen on the tag which would eventually fall off along with the stalk. This method is known as cryotherapy. In case you cannot tolerate the pain you will be given numbing injection on the anus region during the procedure. Over the counter creams are available to remove anal tags. You can try amoils skin cream to remove anal skin tags but it is safe to remove them with the help of your doctor.
Related posts:
Hemorrhoids – Symptoms, Causes, Home Remedies, Treatment
Ganglion Cyst – Symptoms, Treatment, Pictures, Surgery
Genital Warts – Pictures, Symptoms, Causes, Treatment
Shingles – Symptoms, Causes, Treatment, Pictures
Filed Under: Info
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Recent Posts
33 Weeks Pregnant – Symptoms, Baby Development & Tips
32 Weeks Pregnant – Symptoms, Baby Development & Tips
31 Weeks Pregnant – Symptoms, Baby Development & Tips
Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome – Causes, Pictures, Symptoms, Treatment
Basal Cell Carcinoma (Basal Cell Cancer) – Pictures, Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
Bed Sores – Pictures, Causes, Stages, Symptoms, Treatment
Baby Acne – Causes, Pictures, Treatment, Home Remedies
Atopic Dermatitis (Eczema) – Pictures, Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy