Longevity Blog | Ross Pelton | The Natural Pharmacist Blog
HOME
ABOUT
BLOG
CONSULTATIONS
Are you ready to join the life extension revolution?
Do you like living on the cutting-edge of health and life extension? I do. It's my passion. Sign up to receive FREE HEALTH TIPS on how you can improve and extend the quality of your life, naturally.
Subscribe
Are you ready to join the life extension revolution?
Do you like living on the cutting-edge of health and life extension? Sign up to receive FREE HEALTH TIPS from Natural Pharmacist Ross Pelton on how you can improve and extend the quality of your life, naturally.
Subscribe
Are you ready to join the life extension revolution?
Subscribe
Vitamin C Boosts Immunity: Helps Prevent Colds & Flu
Thursday, February 4, 2016 Filed in: Ascorbic Acid | Colds | Flu | Immune System | Vitamin C
Ingesting vitamin C several times a day is one of the most effective ways to boost your immune system. Unfortunately, many people do not consume enough vitamin C to realize its vast array of health benefits. Most adults incorrectly assume that the government recommended RDA of 75-90 mg of vitamin C is an optimal daily dose. This RDA or “recommended dietary allowance” is only enough to prevent vitamin-deficiency disease states such as scurvy—but not nearly enough to provide optimal support for your immune system.
Nobel prize-winning scientist Dr. Linus Pauling was among the first to recognize the importance of high-dose vitamin C supplementation more than 30 years ago. Since then, scientists have amassed impressive evidence supporting the numerous benefits of high-dose vitamin C.
Vitamin C has anti-viral activity in the body, so it helps protect against winter colds and the flu. When the body is under stress (physical and/or emotional), vitamin C levels get depleted very quickly. Hence, much higher doses of vitamin C are required to support the immune system during times of stress.
Numerous studies have shown that vitamin C can dramatically reduce infection time as well as boost one’s resistance to infections. For example, studies of vitamin C supplementation in military personnel and other subjects living in close quarters have shown that pneumonia occurred a remarkable 80-100% less often in subjects taking vitamin C than in those who did not supplement with the vitamin.
In developing countries children are highly vulnerable to developing life-threatening infections. In this at-risk population, daily supplementation with up to 1000 mg of vitamin C, along with the mineral zinc, greatly reduced the likelihood of developing potentially deadly pneumonia, malaria, and infection-related diarrhea. In addition, supplementation with vitamin C improved outcomes even when infections had already occurred. This is just one of many studies reporting that vitamin C helps strengthen children’s resistance against infectious diseases. Based on these findings, I believe it is vital that young children also receive appropriate supplementation with vitamin C.
I recommend that adults take 1,000 mg of vitamin C two or three times daily. For children I recommend from 250 mg to 500 mg of vitamin C two or three times daily.
For more information, the Life Extension Foundation has a good article that I recommend reading titled: Newly Discovered Health Benefits of Vitamin C.
Tags: Boosting Immunity
Show more posts
AS SEEN IN
25 Hydroxy Vitamin D
Air Squats
Anti-Aging
Anxiety
Ascorbic Acid
Breast Cancer
Calcium
Cancer
Coffee
Cognitive Function
Colds
Continuing Education
Dairy Products
Decaffeinated Coffee
Depression
Detoxification
DHA
Diabetes
Diet
Drug-Induced Nutrient Depletions
EPA
Exercise
Fish Oils
Flu
Glutathione
Healing Injuries
Health
Health Education
High-Intensity Exercise Training
HIIT
Immune System
Inflammation
Intenst Exercise
JAMA
Lactobacillus fermentum ME-3
Life Extension
Mental Health
Microbiome
Mold
Muscle Mass
Mycotoxins
Omega-3
Osteoporosis
Pain
Probiotics
Rickets
Sauna
SOUL
Sprint 8
Squats
Strength
Superbug Infections
The Supplement Paradox
Type 2 Diabetes
Vitamin C
Vitamin D
Weight Loss
March 2019
February 2019
December 2018
November 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
November 2017
October 2017
August 2017
January 2017
November 2016
May 2016
April 2016
February 2016
September 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
.
A4M
AAEM
ACAM
ACN
Anti-Anxiety
Anti-Inflammatory
Anxiety
Bemer
Black Cumin
Blood Pressure
Boosting Immunity
Breast Cancer
Bruising
Coenzyme Q10
CoQ10
Depression
Detoxification
DMSO
Far infrared sauna
FMU
Glutathione
Hypertension
Lactobacillus fermentum ME-3
Metformin
Michael Holick
Natural Therapies for Depression & Anxiety
Pelton
PEMF
Phil Campbell
Probiotics
Prostate Cancer
Pulsed Electro-Magnetic Frequencies
Radiation Therapy
Ross
Ross Pelton
Salad
Sleep
SOUL
Sports Injuries
Strength training
Superbug Infections
Thomas Levy
Thymoquinone
Townsend Letter
Type 2 Diabetes
Ubiquinol
Ubiquinone
Weightlifting
RSS Feed
All Posts
Get real-time updates on health breakthroughs that can slow down your aging process and help you achieve healthy longevity.
Get an in-depth look at effective natural therapies for depression and anxiety as well as a clear understanding of the side effects of prescription drug therapies for these conditions. My course now available on Udemy.com.
Preview Course
© 2019 Ross Pelton | Contact Ross