Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Really Work? - Slim Trim Shape
Skip to content
Slim Trim Shape
Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Really Work?
The truth about Himalayan salt lamps: are they helpful or not?
At one point, having a Himalayan salt lamp had become a fashion trend. People would buy a large chunk of Himalayan salt that people would fashion into a lamp. By installing a light bulb inside, the heat released by the light bulb would then melt the Himalayan salt which would supposedly give people health benefits. However, some people knew they could make money out of this fad. Pretty soon, there were what people called “fake” Himalayan salt lamps circulating around. Then, people had to make sure they knew they were a real Himalayan salt lamp or just one of those fake ones.
But really, what’s the big deal with having one of these lamps in the room? Here are a list of benefits of having a Himalayan salt lamp in the room.
Benefits of Himalayan salt lamp
Improves sleep. This is probably because it mimics the sea air which helps people breathe. Often times while people sleep, they have difficulty breathing which is what the Himalayan salt lamp tries to solve.
Increases serotonin in the brain. Himalayan salt lamps when melted release negative ions in the air. These negative ions then soothe the mind and allow more oxygen to the brain. By soothing the brain, it promotes the release of serotonin which is known as the happy hormone.
Calms allergy and asthma. Similar to saline sprays, Himalayan salt lamps help melt the mucus build up which causes allergy. It also attracts the contamination in the air via hygroscopy and traps the dirt inside the crystal.
Boosts blood circulation
How do you know if the Himalayan salt lamp is real or fake?
Now because of the fad, people have been pushing around all sorts of lamps. Some people managed to make it look like real Himalayan salt lamps but they’re not the genuine thing. But the thing is, you’re not entirely sure how to tell if they’re real Himalayan salt lamps. How do you tell? There are ways to tell how they’re real. Some ways to tell are via:
If the lamp sweats when you wipe it with a damp cloth then, it’s real. As gross as this sounds, it’s the truth. The Himalayan salt lamp cleanses the air around it via hygroscopy in which it traps the moisture in the crystal. At a certain point, the moisture will start building up around the crystal which will create the “sweat”. And if starts to sweat, it’s the genuine article.
The person can easily tell you where it’s from. Often times, Himalayan salt lamps are from the Khwera Salt Mines in Pakistan. And if they can’t tell you that, or if they say its from another place, then, it’s obviously not the real deal.
When humid, there’s a puddle under the lamp. Now when this occurs, don’t panic. For starters, the creators of the lamp should have predicted this and kept all electrical parts away. Secondly, the puddle is a result of hygroscopy which is the attraction of moisture in the air which forms a puddle beneath it.
And if your lamp does three of these things then, you should be assured that the lamp is real.
So, are Himalayan salt lamps helpful or not?
Himalayan salt lamps appear to have a lot of health benefits. And for those who have problems breathing, Himalayan salt seems to have the ability alleviate respiratory problems. Most of the time, people with respiratory problems rely on inhalers or nebulizers to help them breathe. Or if one were to go to the traditional way, they would bring them to the sea. Having the Himalayan salt lamp nearby brings the benefits the sea air has closer to the home instead of having to travel so far.
Some even add that the light emitted by these lamps are also helpful for those who have trouble sleeping. Some night lights can be too bright for people which is why they opt for these ones. While Himalayan salt seems to have a lot of health benefits, one has to make sure it’s a real Himalayan salt lamp. Otherwise, you may as well make one out of just plain salt instead.
Sources:
Blaylock, B., & Operator, F. (2008). Himalayan Salt Lamps & Negative Ions. Ann Gen Psychiatry, 7, 13.
Milan, C., & Jagmeet, K. (2015). CRYSTAL SALT LAMP, AN AFFORDABLE EQUIPMENT. International Journal of Ayurveda and Pharma Research, 3(5).
Frame, J. Himalayan Crystal Salt–Balancing the Facts.
ul Hassana, A., Dina, A. M. U., & Alib, S. (2017). Chemical characterisation of Himalayan rock salt. AIMS & SCOPE, 67.
Hendel, B., & Ferreira, P. (2003). Water and Salt, the Essence of Life. Natural Resources, 251.
Zsigmond, P. A. P. P. (2016). Morphological and microchemical characterization of Himalayan salt samples. Rev. Roum. Chim, 61(3), 169-174.
Posted on January 23, 2019 (March 26, 2019) by admin
Posted in Health Tips, Home RemediesTagged benefits of the Himalayan salt lamp, Himalayan salt lamp real or fake, real Himalayan salt lamp
Post navigation
BMI vs. Body FatThe Keto Diet and Brittle Fingernails
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment *
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment
Search
Recent Posts
How to Boost Ketone Levels for Maximum Weight Loss
Keto Side Effects: What to Do About Keto Diarrhea
Keto Side Effects: How to Deal with Keto Rash
Best Keto Friendly Oils for Cooking
What is the Targeted Ketogenic Diet?
Recent Comments
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
Categories
Diet
Fitness
Health
Health Condition
Health Tips
Home Remedies
Supplements
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
© Copyright 2018 - Slim Trim Shape - All Rights Reserved