Arthritis and Alternative Therapies
Arthritis and Alternative Therapies
Known and single alternative therapies for arthritis range like the a-b-c from Acupuncture to Zinc, with great plenty in between; From magnetic bracelets made of titanium, stainless steel and copper to direct magnets applications to yodels dozen to name just a handful. But the question remains; Do alternative therapies for arthritis actually help?
Many children suffer pains from chronic arthritis are looking for alternative therapies in an effort to find, accommodate and comfort away from their pain, stiffness, aggravation, anxiety, and depression associate the disease. Indeed the Arthritis Foundation reports that around two-thirds of those suffering from the disease curtseyed some act of alternative therapies.
An over view of the those alternative therapies: Anything or something Works, a mass of don't work at all.
An analysis conducted for Arthritis Today reported that the favourite alternative therapies of the 790 arthritis sufferers who responded to the analysis included all from prayer and meditation to magnets. The writer is associate director of the Thurston Arthritis Research Centre at the University of North Carolina at the acclaimed Chapel Hill location.
Out of the 2,100 physicians who responded to the survey, the alternative therapies most recommended were capsaicin, relaxation, biofeedback, meditation, journal writing, yoga, spirituality, tai chi, and also acupuncture.
After all looking at the above all results, I may ask how comes magnetic therapy is not up there with the balance of the therapies. all achievable answer is that using magnets for healing may not needed to be applied by a acclimated professional health personnel. After all, magnets are magnets, they is no real risk to use and do not have any side effects.
One can absolutely chose and wear a magnetic bracelet of his / her acceptance.
Indeed some of these alternative treatments absolutely work, say authoritarian arthritis specialists, and even have scientific evidence behind them (although most doctors admit that more research is needed). On the other hand, many more of the alternative treatments don't work or need additional studies to support anecdotal claims.
Shopping Basket
Magnetic Therapy Info
THE SPOTLIGHTS ON PRODUCTS
RESOURCES
BUYING MAGNETIC BRACELETS
GENERAL INFO
MAGNETS IN THERAPY
HISTORY
MAGNETS & MAGNETISM
ANIMALS & MAGNETS
SPORT & MAGNETIC POWER
HEALTH & MAGNETS
› Arthritis and Alternative Therapies
› Magnetic Bracelets and Arthritis
› Using magnetic bracelets to treat rheumatic disorders
› Blood circulation and magnetism
› Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and magnet therapy
› Conditions treated by magnetic therapy
› Copper, cramp and crippling pain
› Magnetic bracelets cure wrist pains – especially copper
› Magnetic bracelets – do they work?
› Magnetic effects on the endocrine system
› The effect of magnetism on the nervous system
› Treatment and healing with copper
› Magnetic therapy for post-polio patients
Advanced Search
STRENGTH (Highest strength 5):
All Results12345
SUITABLE MOSTLY FOR:
All ResultsMenUnisexWomen
PRODUCT TYPE:
All ResultsAnkletBangleLinks BraceletPendant
METAL:
All ResultsCopperGrade 2 TitaniumPlated Copper AlloyStainless Steel
Shop by Price
All Results£0 - £15£15 - £30£30 - £60£60+
Recently Viewed
Evo-Flow Energy Bands
Only £19.99 !
Available in White, Red and blue, the energy band represents superb value for money. Will make a great gift.
Click here to see the full range.
White Ceramic Bracelets
£29.99
Ceramic bracelet are most elegant and will stand scratches better than Titanium & Stainless Steel.
Click here to see the full range.
DID YOU KNOW?
You can send the item in
any condition
for the first 30 days after receiving it, or if new and unused,
any time!
LICK HERE FOR DETAILS
SUPER STRONG MAGNETS !
Booster bangles features two mega size magnets that makes all the difference - boosting the magnetic strength, and with the addition of four standard size magnets.
From £11.95 !
LASER ENGRAVED COPPER
From £ 7.99
Wide copper bangles, laser engraved with amazing patterns, with 6 powerful magnets. Shipped with luxury gift pouch.
JET-BLACK MEN'S TITANIUM
ONLY £ 27.00
Men's classic magnetic bracelets with two super strong magnets in each link.
SOMETHING SPECIAL FOR HER
£22.99 - £39.99
Classic range for ladies, offer wide range of prices and styles. Man, you cannot go wrong if you give one of those bracelets for St. Valentine's Day.
Treating Arthritis with Magnetic Bracelets
It appears to us from the feedback we are receiving from our customers that they proud supporters of using the unique benefits of treating arthritis with magnetic bracelets. Many others, mostly people that never used magnetic therapy, remain sceptic.
For this reason, it has become an issue of controversy between those that did not try magnetic therapy and do not believe in it, and those who actually used magnetic therapy.
And so it remains a hot topic in the world of medicine today.
With an estimated 8.5 million people in the UK suffering from different forms of arthritis, the suggestion that the inflammation that arthritis brings can be eased with something as simple as magnetic bracelet, it is no wonder that it is such a debated issue.
According to Arthritis-Relief.co.uk, there has been in recent years, and continues to be large volume of research conducted about using magnets to eliminate arthritic ailments which has demonstrated that magnetic bracelets, can be an effective method of pain management.
In the United States alone it is reported that as many as one in three adults are being affected by different forms of arthritis, with more than 70 million Americans suffering from the disease.
The Arthritis and Glucosamine Resource Centre reported that in a research carried out to whether or not magnetic bracelets are effective in fighting arthritis pain which questioned whether a ‘placebo effect’ of wearing a magnetic bracelet is the cause for arthritis patients endorsing that the bracelets create pain relief, it was concluded that arthritis patients should embrace magnetic bracelets with an open mind.
GENERAL
Go Top
All Products
Latest Products
Advance Search
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Return Policy
Resizing Links Bracelets
Spending Points
Bracelet Care
SITE INFORMATION
Postage
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Site Map
HELP
Contact Us
Read Our Blog
About Magnetic Therapy
© 2019 Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
ALL PRODUCTS
Special OffersBlack RangeTitanium BraceletsStainless Steel BraceletsBio 4 in 1 ElementsEnergy PendantsNew Items
For Him For Her Bangles Anklets
Contact UsRecent Product Reviews
View Cart | Wish List | New Account | Sign In