The Official Medtipster Blog | 2011 | August
The Official Medtipster Blog
have your healthcare and afford it, too
Home
Generic Drugs
Archive for August, 2011
THE CLINICAL AND FINANCIAL VALUE OF EVERGREENED DRUGS
August 31, 2011 By: Nadia Category: HealthCare, Medicine Advice, Medtipster, Prescription News
www.Medtipster.com Source: Navitus Clinical Journal, August 2011
Occasionally, when a patent on a brand drug is about to expire, the manufacturer will create what is unofficially known as an “evergreened” version of the drug. An evergreened drug typically is a metabolite (a substance normally resulting from metabolism of another substance in the body) or other very close chemical relative or a reformulation (extended release version) of a highly profitable, brand drug. For the purposes of this article, we will examine metabolites/close chemical relatives to discuss how a transparent PBM evaluates these drugs as they relate to their formularies.
What is an Evergreened Drug Exactly?
Evergreened drugs are slightly different chemically from their parent (original brand) drug. Some examples of parent brand drugs and their evergreened versions include the evergreening of Claritin to Clarinex, Zyrtec to Xyzal, and Prevacid to Kapidex. Because of the chemical difference in evergreen drugs, the Food & Drug Administration (FDA) considers these drugs to be new drugs. Therefore, the manufacturer is required to submit a New Drug Application, proving the new drug is not a placebo and that it is safe and effective.
Although evergreened drugs may be approved by the FDA, they rarely offer a distinct clinical advantage to the parent drug (occasionally, they are relatively more tolerable). In cases where the evergreen drug provides more tolerability, the clinical advantage dictates the value of the drug and it is placed at a preferred formulary tier. More often, however, there is no evidence that any efficacy or tolerability advantages exist with the evergreened drug over the parent drug.
What is the Financial Value of Evergreened Drugs?
Pharmaceutical manufacturers make a strong effort to maintain the market status of a drug in order to maintain a large share in the marketplace. Some steps used to promote the evergreened drug include:
Increasing public awareness of the drug through direct to consumer advertising—This tactic is used to increase the number of claims for the drug, creating a perceived need for the drug in the marketplace.
Setting the price of the new drug below that of the parent drug—The lower cost may appeal to plan sponsors.
Aggressively rebating the drug—A high rebate may appeal to plan sponsors.
These financial incentives may be tempting, until one considers that the patent expiration of the parent drug is usually imminent, meaning that generic versions will soon be on the market. Generic drug versions typically cost about 20% of the total cost of the parent drug. While the incentives above may make the evergreened drug look financially viable compared to the parent, these incentives will typically be short-term. Even with price reductions and/or aggressive rebates, the evergreened drug rarely meets the low cost of the generic version(s).
How does a transparent PBM Evaluate these Drugs?
Since a transparent PBM manages its formulary to the lowest net cost, each drug is scrutinized for its clinical effect and overall cost. Drug cost becomes an important factor when the clinical advantage of the ‘new’ or evergreened drug over other drugs in its category is unclear. In these cases, where the clinical efficacy is the same for multiple drugs in a category, the PBM will maintain the lowest-net-cost product that yields the best drug therapy. This approach achieves the same clinical results with the lowest price for the client and member. As such, the PBM will often not include the evergreened product on its formularies or will include it on a non-preferred tier (with some exceptions).
Tags: Clarinex, Claritin, Clinical Advantage, Drug Administration, Drug Application, Efficacy, Evergreening, FDA, Formularies, Metabolism, Metabolite, Metabolites, New Drugs, Pbm, Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, Placebo, Prevacid, Reformulation, Relatives, Zyrtec
No Comments →
Antibiotic Misuse & Resistance
August 10, 2011 By: PharmaSueAnn Category: Medicine Advice
We have been hearing a lot in the news about MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staph. Aureus). Everyone of us can be affected by antibiotic resistance, even if we do not take antibiotics. Antibiotic resistance occurs when antibiotics will no longer work against disease causing bacteria. These types of resistant infections can result in longer lasting illnesses, more doctors visits or longer hospital stays. Taking an antibiotic when you have a viral infection will not make you feel better – but it can contribute to antibiotic resistance.
Tags: Amp, Antibiotic Misuse, Antibiotic Resistance, Antibiotics, Disease Causing Bacteria, Doctors Visits, Illnesses, Methicillin Resistant Staph Aureus, Resistant Infections, Resistant Staph Aureus, Viral Infection
No Comments →
Citrus Fruits and Medications
August 03, 2011 By: PharmaSueAnn Category: Medicine Advice
Citrus fruits especially grapefruit should be avoided when taking many medications, including those purchased over-the-counter. Do not take these interactions lightly, some can cause potentially dangerous health problems. Certain chemicals that grapefruit and other citrus fruits contain can interfere with the enzymes that metabolize various medications in our digestive tracts. If you are uncertain to how you should take your medication(s) consult with your local pharmacist.
Tags: Chemicals, Citrus Fruits, Dangerous Health, Digestive Tracts, Enzymes, Grapefruit, Health Problems, Medication, Medications, Pharmacist
No Comments →
Share our blog!
Archives
August 2016
September 2015
May 2015
July 2014
June 2014
April 2014
February 2014
October 2013
May 2013
March 2013
January 2013
December 2012
September 2012
May 2012
March 2012
January 2012
December 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
July 2008
Recent Comments
Blood Pressure Facts : How to Check Blood Pressure | Healthy Blood Pressure.net on Hypertension drugs going generic; Firms get OK to market cheaper high blood pressure medications
Roy on H1N1 Vaccine Now Available at 123 Locations in Ten States
Karen on Do You Have Questions About Generics!
Roberta Blumberg on I love this job!
Mark Decker on I love this job!
Tags
Active Ingredients Adviser Amp Brand Name Brand Name Drugs Caremark Consumers Doctors Drugs Express Scripts flu Flu Season Flu Shot flu shots Food And Drug Administration Generic Drug Generic Drugs Generic Program Generics Health Care Costs Health Care System Health Insurance High Blood Pressure Masters Medicare Part D Medication Medications Medicines Pharmacies Pharmacist pharmacists Pharmacy Pharmacy Benefit Managers PharmaSueAnn Prescription Drug Prescription Drugs Prescription Medications Prescriptions swine flu Target Therapeutic Alternatives Tylar Walgreens Wall Street Journal Walmart
About
The ultimate pharmacy search engine for discounted generic drug programs available at pharmacies throughout the USA.
Blogroll
Wordpress Themes
News Articles
Prescription Drug Costs – The Price is Right?
Our links
Befriend us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Home
Meta
Log in
Valid XHTML
XFN
WordPress
Search on This Blog
Plugin by wpburn.com wordpress themes
The Official Medtipster Blog © 2007 - 2019 All Rights Reserved. Using WordPress 4.1.25 Engine
Entries and Comments.
Prosumer ver. 1.9 design by WP GPL