Home Instructions Andrew C. Cromwell, DDS, Anaconda MT
Skip to main content
View Menu Call our Office
Andrew C. Cromwell, DDS
Anaconda, MT
Call Today
406-563-3025
Home
Patient Information
Welcome
ADA Patient Education
First Visit
Scheduling
Financial Policy
Insurance
Infection Control
Advanced Technology
Home Instructions
Services
Fillings / Restorations
Crowns
Bridges
Dental Implant Restorations
Root Canal Therapy
Tooth Extractions
Dentures
Dental Sealants
Prevention
Gum Disease
TMJ Disorders
Cosmetic Treatments
Bonding
Porcelain Veneers
Inlays & Onlays
Teeth Whitening
Zoom Whitening
Dental Health
Oral Hygiene
Child Dentistry
Prophylaxis (Teeth Cleaning)
Dental Dictionary
Periodontal Maintenance
Dental Specialties
The Practice
The Dentist
The Team
Contact Us
Emergencies
Location & Directions
Referral Sources
Home Care Instructions
After Anesthetic Administration
When an anesthetic has been used, your lips and tongue may be numb for several hours after the appointment. Avoid any chewing and hot beverages until the numbness has completely worn off. It is very easy to bite or burn your tongue or lip while you are numb.
Injection sites may also be sore. Ibuprofen (Motrin), Tylenol or aspirin (one tablet every 3-4 hours as needed for pain) work well to alleviate the tenderness. Post injection infections are very rare but are possible. If sensitivity persists beyond a few days, please contact our office at Anaconda Office Phone Number 406-563-3025.
After Tooth Extraction
After tooth extraction, it’s important for a blood clot to form to stop the bleeding and begin the healing process. That’s why we ask you to “sit for an hour and bite on the gauze an hour” after the appointment. If the bleeding or oozing still persists, place another damp well folded gauze pad and bite firmly, again ” sit for and hour, bite for an hour”. You may have to do this several times. If you run out of gauze, a caffeinated tea bag will work as a substitute. After the blood clot forms, it is important not to disturb or dislodge the clot as it aids healing. Limit vigorous exercise for the next 24 hours as this will increase blood pressure and may cause more bleeding from the extraction site.
DO NOT: rinse vigorously, suck on straws, smoke, drink alcohol or brush teeth next to the extraction site for 72 hours. These activities will dislodge or dissolve the clot and retard the healing process.
DO NOT: Eat foods such as: Nuts, Berries and shell fish. No popcorn for 6 weeks!
DO:Reduce activity for 24 hours.
DO: Eat a soft diet such as: yogurt, pudding, mashed potatoes, pancakes, scrabbled eggs etc.
After the tooth is extracted you may feel some pain and experience some swelling. An ice pack or an unopened bag of frozen peas or corn applied to the area will keep swelling to a minimum. Take pain medications as prescribed. The swelling usually subsides after 48 hours. Never apply heat to the area.
Use the pain medication as directed. Call the office at Anaconda Office Phone Number 406-563-3025 if the medication doesn’t seem to be working. If antibiotics are prescribed, continue to take them for the indicated length of time, even if signs and symptoms of infection are gone. Drink lots of fluid and eat nutritious soft food on the day of the extraction. You can eat normally as soon as you are comfortable.
It is important to resume your normal dental routine after 24 hours. This should include brushing and flossing your teeth at least once a day. This will speed healing and help keep your mouth fresh and clean.
After a few days you will feel fine and can resume your normal activities. If you have heavy bleeding, severe pain, continued swelling for 2-3 days, or a reaction to the medication, call our office immediately at Anaconda Office Phone Number 406-563-3025.
After Fillings
Remember that it will take time to adjust to the feel of your new bite. When the bite is altered or the position of the teeth is changed it takes several days for the brain to recognize the new position of your teeth or their thickness as normal. If you continue to detect any high spots or problems with your bite, call our office at Anaconda Office Phone Number 406-563-3025 so we can schedule an adjustment appointment.
It is normal to experience some hot and cold sensitivity. The teeth require some time to heal after removal of tooth structure and will be sensitive in the interim. Your gums may also be sore for a few days. Warm salt water rinses (a teaspoon of salt in a cup of warm water) three times a day will reduce pain and swelling. A mild pain medication (one tablet of Tylenol or Ibuprofen (Motrin) every 3-4 hours) should ease any residual discomfort.
Daily brushing and flossing are a must for your new dental work. Daily plaque removal is critical for the long-term success of your fillings and teeth, as are regular cleaning appointments.
Any food that can crack, chip or damage a natural tooth can do the same to your new teeth. Avoid hard foods and substances (such as beer nuts, peanut brittle, ice, fingernails, or pencils) and sticky candies. Smoking will stain your new teeth. Minimize or avoid foods that stain such as coffee, red wine, tea and berries.
If you engage in sports let us know so we can make a custom mouthguard. If you grind your teeth at night, wear the night guard we have provided for you. Adjusting to the look and feel of your new smile will take time. If you have any problems or concerns, please let us know. We always welcome your questions.
After Crown and Bridge Appointments
Crowns and bridges usually take two or three appointments to complete. In the first visit, the teeth are prepared and molds of the mouth are taken. Temporary crowns or bridges are placed to protect the teeth while the custom restoration is being made. Since the teeth will be anesthetized, the tongue, lips and roof of the mouth may be numb. Please refrain from eating and drinking hot beverages until the numbness is completely worn off.
Occasionally a temporary crown may come off. Call us at Anaconda Office Phone Number 406-563-3025 if this happens and bring the temporary crown with you so we can re-cement it. It is very important for the temporary to stay in place, as it will prevent other teeth from moving and compromising the fit of your final restoration.
To keep your temporaries in place, avoid eating sticky foods (gum), hard foods, and if possible, chew on the opposite side of your mouth. It is important to brush normally, but floss carefully and don’t pull up or down on the floss which may dislodge the temporary but pull the floss out from the side of the temporary crown.
It is normal to experience some temperature and pressure sensitivity after each appointment. The sensitivity should subside a few weeks after the placement of the final restoration. Mild pain medications may also be used as directed by our office.
If your bite feels uneven, if you have persistent pain, or if you have any other questions or concerns, please call our office at Anaconda Office Phone Number 406-563-3025.
Patient Information
Welcome
ADA Patient Education
First Visit
Scheduling
Financial Policy
Insurance
Infection Control
Advanced Technology
Home Instructions
Home
Patient Information
Services
Cosmetic Treatments
Dental Health
The Practice
Contact Us
Referral Sources
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Anaconda MT • Phillipsburg MT • Deerlodge MT • Butte MT • Drummond MT
Rocerk MT • Wisdom MT
Andrew C. Cromwell, DDS • Address: 315 Oak Street Anaconda MT 59711 • Phone: Anaconda Office Phone Number 406-563-3025 • Fax: 406-563-3015
Dental Website Design by PBHS © 2019
Scroll to Top