Monday's medical myth: vitamin C prevents colds
Editions
Africa Australia Canada Canada (français) España France Global Perspectives Indonesia New Zealand United Kingdom United States
Sections
Home
Arts + Culture
Economy + Business
Education
Environment + Energy
Ethics + Religion
Health + Medicine
Politics + Society
Science + Technology
En Español
Search
Services
Newsletter
Read on Play Newsstand
Read on Apple News
Read on Flipboard
Information
Who we are
Our charter
Our team
Partners and funders
Republishing guidelines
Contact us
Donate
Friends of The Conversation
Privacy policy
Terms and conditions
Corrections
Edition:
Available editions
United States
Africa
Australia
Canada
Canada (français)
España
France
Global Perspectives
Indonesia
New Zealand
United Kingdom
Donate
Become an author
Sign up as a reader
Sign in
Get newsletter
Search
Academic rigor, journalistic flair
Arts + Culture
Economy + Business
Education
Environment + Energy
Ethics + Religion
Health + Medicine
Politics + Society
Science + Technology
Follow Topics
Affordable Care Act
Marijuana
Opioids
Vaccines
Zika
Monday’s medical myth: vitamin C prevents colds
May 14, 2012 12.24am EDT
Michael Tam, UNSW
Author
Michael Tam
General Practitioner, and Conjoint Senior Lecturer, UNSW
Disclosure statement
Michael Tam does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.
Partners
UNSW Australia provides funding as a member of The Conversation AU.
View all partners
Republish this article
Republish our articles for free, online or in print, under Creative Commons license.
A vitamin C a day won’t keep colds away. Owaief
Email
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
WhatsApp
Messenger
Vitamin C is so often suggested as a treatment for the common cold that it’s almost considered common sense. This well-known vitamin is primarily found in fruits and vegetables, with small quantities in some meats.
With a healthy diet, most of us should get all the vitamin C we need from food. But this doesn’t stop many Australians boosting their intake through vitamin supplements.
A story on vitamin C should start with scurvy. The other name for vitamin C is ascorbic acid, which literally means “anti-scurvy”. As vitamin C is required to build and repair body tissue, its deficiency leads to a range of horrible symptoms including bruising, bleeding, loose teeth and poor wound healing.
Scurvy was a leading cause of death among 18th century sailors. A. Oostendorp
Until the modern era, scurvy was a major cause of death in those without access to fresh food, particularly sailors on long sea-voyages and medieval city dwellers.
The history of vitamin C tells an important story about science in medicine - and informs us about three key elements of medical research:
1. Treatments need to be tested in clinical trials
The first (documented) clinical trial of a medical treatment was by Scottish Royal Navy physician James Lind in 1747. He divided sailors suffering from scurvy into different treatment groups and found the sailors who received oranges and lemons made a drastic recovery.
Although fresh citrus fruits had been reported as effective for scurvy prior to Lind’s study, it had never been tested systematically. At that time, it was but one of many purported treatments (most of which we now know to be useless). Lind had demonstrated an unambiguously effective treatment for a potentially deadly condition.
2. Medical practice needs to be informed by new research
The medical establishment in the 1700s rejected Lind’s findings. The prevailing view was that scurvy was related to spoiled food and hygiene. As this was an age where clinical trials weren’t the norm, no one replicated the findings.
It wasn’t until four decades later that another Scottish Navy Physician, Gilbert Blane, instituted health reforms and mandated the use of lemon juice.
3. Assumptions without empirical confirmation are risky
Unfortunately, scurvy was far from conquered. Fresh citrus fruits were impractical on long sea-voyages so juice and concentrates were carried instead.
In the late-1800s, a change in the preserving process and a switch to limes resulted in a juice that was devoid of any vitamin C content – useless for preventing scurvy. It was wrongly assumed that it was the “acidity” that mattered. The lack of therapeutic testing contributed to the disastrous 1911 Scott expedition to the South Pole. The team members were beset with scurvy, 150 years after Lind’s experiment.
Scurvy was finally identified as a nutritional deficiency in the early 1900s, and by the 1930s, vitamin C was found be the essential nutrient involved.
Moving forward a few decades, the belief of the effectiveness of vitamin C for colds gained momentum following the publication of [Vitamin C and the common cold](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vitamin_C_and_the_Common_Cold_(book) by esteemed chemist Linus Pauling (one of the few people to have won more than one Nobel Prize). Pauling extensively promoted vitamin C as having a wide range of health benefits and took large regular doses of supplements.
But like the history of citrus and scurvy, it’s not enough to simply claim reasons why something should work. Assumptions are risky and treatments need to be tested. So what does the research evidence actually show?
Vitamin C supplements won’t treat or prevent colds. Kokopinto
When used as a treatment for cold symptoms in the general population, vitamin C supplements appear to do no better than a placebo, even in large doses (greater than one gram a day).
If you take vitamin C supplements every day for prevention, you still won’t avoid any colds. But the symptoms may be milder and the duration of symptoms slightly reduced – about half a day for a typical cold lasting a week.
It’s important to remember that we don’t know if regular high-dose vitamin C supplements are entirely safe when taken over the long-term. There is some evidence to suggest they aren’t.
We all become afflicted by the common cold at times and it would be wonderful if something as simple as vitamin C supplements made a meaningful difference. But unfortunately, as the saying goes, many a beautiful theory has run aground on awkward fact.
Even taking the most favourable interpretation of the evidence, vitamin C supplements have only a minor effect on symptoms – and that’s only if they’re taken every day.
History
Medical myths
Vitamins
Winter health
Tweet
Share
Get newsletter Newsletter
You might also like
April 15, 2019, 7:34 p.m.: Notre-Dame de Paris in flames. Leighton Kille
Notre-Dame de Paris: From searing emotion to the future rebirth of a World Heritage Site
A flag with the Hindu ‘Om’ symbol held by supporters of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad. arindambanerjee via Shutterstock
Politics of Hindu nationalism: India Tomorrow part 2 podcast transcript
There are three types of flu vaccine available in Australia. Image Point Fr/Shutterstock
High-dose, immune-boosting or four-strain? A guide to flu vaccines for over-65s
View of the Palais de Chaillot, Paris, in September 1948, where the United Nations Assembly is held, at the end of which the Declaration will be signed (10 December 1948). AFP
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights at 70: the challenges that await the UN
Most popular on The Conversation
Our calculator will guess how many healthy years of life you have left
Can changing the microbiome reverse lactose intolerance?
The new digital divide is between people who opt out of algorithms and people who don’t
Does a year in space make you older or younger?
Mapping the US counties where traffic air pollution hurts children the most
If my measles shot was years ago, am I still protected? 5 questions answered
Why Easter is called Easter, and other little-known facts about the holiday
New cholesterol study may lead you to ask: Pass the eggs, or pass on the eggs?
How US tax laws discriminate against women, gays and people of color
Rotating black holes may serve as gentle portals for hyperspace travel
Expert Database
Find experts with knowledge in:*
Want to write?
Write an article and join a growing community of more than 82,800 academics and researchers from 2,811 institutions.
Register now
The Conversation
Community
Community standards
Republishing guidelines
Friends of The Conversation
Research and Expert Database
Analytics
Our feeds
Donate
Company
Who we are
Our charter
Our team
Partners and funders
Resource for media
Contact us
Work with us
En Español
Stay informed and subscribe to our free daily newsletter and get the latest analysis and commentary directly in your inbox.
Email address
✔
Follow us on social media
Privacy policy Terms and conditions Corrections
Copyright © 2010–2019, The Conversation US, Inc.