How To Conceive Twins: 10 Tips From A Mom With Twins
Mommy Edition
Home
Pregnancy
Breastfeeding
Children
Parenting
Money
Foods
Health
Random
Tips
Reviews
You are here: Home / Pregnancy / How To Conceive Twins: 10 Tips From A Mom With Twins
How To Conceive Twins: 10 Tips From A Mom With Twins
By Jessica 2 Comments
There is a wide range of reasons why a couple may want to conceive twins. While twins are double the love and double the cuteness, they are also double the work – take it from a mom who has twins.
But being a mother of twins is pretty special. There are not that many people in this world who get to be born with their best friend. It is an awe inspiring thing to watch your babies grow up together and watch a truly unique bond form between your twins. It is pretty special to be a mother of twins.
Naturally occurring twins happens about 1 in every 89 births. The most common way twins are conceived is known as fraternal twins. This happens when a woman releases two eggs. Identical twins are rare. This is when one egg decides to split early on in pregnancy.
There is a genetic predisposition for having twins if it runs in the family. But this is only if it runs on the mother’s side. A woman whose family has a history of twins has a higher chance of having hyper ovulation.
If it does not run in your family and you are hoping to conceive twins there are many ways to increase your odds to make this happen; the following are 10 tips that can help improve your chances of conceiving twins:
1. Eat Your Yams And Dairy
Cassava, also known as yams, is an African variant of sweet potato. A Yoruba tribe in West Africa is a world wonder showing the highest rate for twins in the world. A research study showed that this may be because of their women’s diet. The women in this tribe are known to eat a lot of Cassava. There is cause to believe that the vegetable is thought to contain a chemical that causes hyper ovulation.
There has also been a study that showed that woman who eats a lot of dairy are also 5 times more likely to conceive twins. It may be the growth hormone that cows are treated with and consuming those milk or dairy products from said cow that will help increase your chances.
2. Take Folic Acid Supplement
In a study out of Australia, there showed a correlation between women who took folic acid before conceiving is more likely to get pregnant with twins. Folic acid is very important to a healthy pregnancy and aid in preventing neural tube defects. It also plays an important role in helping your body make red blood cells. Red blood cells help carry oxygen throughout your body. Not only should you be taking it before you began to conceive but throughout your pregnancy and even after. Studies have shown that folic acid may help protect you from heart disease as well.
3. Conceive Again While Breastfeeding
Though there is many who think that you can’t conceive at all when you are breastfeeding as the process of lactating keeps a woman from ovulating. However, this has been proven wrong by many mothers of twins.
There are much research that shows that the chances of becoming pregnant with twins or multiples increases when a mother is breastfeeding. They are actually 9 times more likely to conceive twins than woman who are not breastfeeding!
4. Have A Large Family
The more kids you have the more likely you are to conceive twins in a subsequent pregnancy. No one knows the magic number that triggers a multiple pregnancy so you will just have to keep on trying until it magically happens. An example of this would be the famous Dugger family. They currently have 19 children! Their second and third child were twins and so were their 10th and 11th.
5. Wait Till You Are Older
While waiting till you are older may decrease your chances of conceiving in general, it is not uncommon for older women to be pregnant with twins when they do find themselves pregnant. The cause of this is because of their greater fluctuations in hormone levels, specifically the follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). This hormone stimulates egg production for ovulation making it more likely for the release of two eggs.
6. Gain Some Weight
Women who are of medium or high weight ranges have a higher chance of conceiving twins. Researchers have found that women with a pre-pregnancy BMI of 30 or more are more likely to conceive fraternal twins that women with a BMI lower than 30.
Women who are tall as well are more likely to conceive twins too.
7. Try Right After You Stop Your Birth Control
When you decide to discontinue any form of birth control, your body sometimes needs to readjust. During the adjusting time, your body may not function the way it is supposed to. Because of all the hormonal craziness, if you conceive right after you stop your birth control, you are more than likely to conceive twins. So as soon as you stop your birth control, it’s time to work on making that baby!
If you conceive when you are currently taking birth control, your chances of conceive multiples are even higher. Those who take birth control pills sporadically or often forget to take their pills have higher odds at conceiving twins.
8. Use Evening Primrose Oil
Primrose Oil is famous for its fertility boosting properties for centuries. The way it works is that it helps women have a healthy production of cervical mucus that flows within the reproductive tract. You want healthy cervical mucus because it helps sperm survive in it for longer. This will help make the sperm’s travel to the ovary much easier. To try to conceive twins, it is advised to take evening primrose oil at the peak of menstruation to up the ovulation.
9. L-arginine
L-arginine is an essential amino acid that helps improve the health of a women’s reproductive system. It helps improve the flow of blood to the uterus and can help the healthy development of the endometrial lining in the uterus. This is helpful in conceiving twins because the egg or hopefully two eggs attach themselves to the endometrial lining much easier.
(Note: Large amounts of L-arginine should be avoided if you have a history of cold sores or herpes outbreaks.)
10. Seek Fertility Assistance
Because of all the new fertility treatments out there now that help couples conceive, the rate of having multiples has gone up dramatically. There are drugs that stimulate ovulation which can lead to a multiple pregnancy. Multiples can also be caused by in-vitro fertilization. This is when multiple embryos are implanted in a mother to better her chances of conceiving. Remember that fertility treatments should not be used if they are not warranted, so they should only be used if fertility assistance is needed.
Also Read: Natural Steps Towards Choosing Your Baby’s Gender Before Conception
You May Also Like:
Baby Gender Selection Methods
12 Ways To Sleep Better While You Are Expecting
How To Have An Easier And Shorter Labor: 10 Tips
If you enjoyed this post, please consider sharing it...
Facebook
0
Twitter
Pinterest
0
StumbleUpon
0
Comments
Julia says
March 26, 2016 at 3:12 am
Thanks for this list of tips! I feel a bit uncomfortable trying to conceive right after going off the pill, because it can make you deficient in folate and b vitamins – and I’d take folate over folic acid – but I will try the yams and dairy, and L-arganine!
“Lucky” for me, I am already getting older and am a heavier person so maybe the odds are in my favour 😉
I had no idea about women who are breastfeeding being more likely to conceive multiples, interesting!
Reply
Tracey says
June 13, 2016 at 5:58 pm
Great research on this subject….I had no idea that these supplements can help in this way – and I eat yams at least twice a week already 🙂 Although having twins is a scary thought, I love the idea of having siblings that can be each other’s best friends for life. I too am getting older and twins run in my family so there may be hope for me. My husband and I are thinking of going the fertility route. We have young teenagers and really would like to expand our family. Super interesting article!!
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Current ye@r *
Leave this field empty
Facebook
Google+
Pinterest
RSS
Twitter
Recent Posts
5 Simple First Aid Lessons You Should Teach Your Child
12 Ways To Sleep Better While You Are Expecting
Attachement Parenting: Following Your Parental Instincts
15 Proven Health Benefits Of Drinking Lemon Water Everyday
10 Ways To Wake A Grumpy Child In The Morning
MOST POPULAR
How To Get Rid Of Unpleasant Vaginal Odor
How To Get Rid Of Bad Toenail Fungus
Bed Bug Bites (How I Survived It) And Other Gross Facts
Am I Pregnant? How Early Can I Take A Pregnancy Test?
How To Lose Those Last 5,10 or 15 Pounds
Mommy Must Reads
Top Pregnancy Books For Expecting Moms
51 Breastfeeding Tips For New Moms
Educational Toys For Babies And Toddlers
Ways To Save Money On Diapers And More
Books To Build Self Esteem In Children
Activities That Make Reading Fun For Kids
Hiring The Right Nanny For Your Kids
How To Help Children Cope With Anxiety
How To Spice Up Your Married Romance
How To Make Healthy Sweet Potato Fries
About - Contact Us - Privacy - Disclosure - Mommy Edition © 2019