Our Blog - Chris H. Boerger, DDS | Fairfield OH
Chris H. Boerger, DDS
Tap for Menu
Home
About Us
Meet Dr. Chris Boerger
Meet the Team
Our Blog
New Patients
Office Visits
Financial Information
Patient Forms
Dental FAQs
Testimonials
General Dentistry
Common Procedures
Preventive Care
Gum Disease
Cosmetic Dentistry
Periodontal Treatments
Orthodontics
TMJ-TMD
Emergency Dental Care
Dental Services
Intraoral Camera
Oral Cancer Screening
Teeth Whitening
CAD/CAM
E4D Dentist™
Clear Aligners
Invisalign®
Sleep Apnea
Snoring Prevention
Digital X-rays
Pediatric Dentistry
Pediatric Dentistry
Dental Care for Your Baby
Pediatric Dental Emergencies
Pediatric Dental FAQs
Sports Dentistry
Thumb Sucking
Contact Us
Fairfield Office Location
Appointment Request
Post-Appointment Survey
Our Blog
The Connection Between Your Mouth and Your Heart
April 24th, 2019
At Chris H. Boerger, DDS, we know your dental health is closely connected to your overall health. We also know that the mouth can oftentimes be the first place to show signs of other bodily health issues.
Studies have shown possible links between periodontal (gum) disease and heart disease, and researchers have found that people with gum disease have an elevated risk of suffering from a stroke or developing coronary artery disease. Believe it or not, an estimated 70 to 80 percent of North American adults currently have some form of gum disease.
Gum disease, which affects the tissues that surround and support the teeth, is an infection caused by a sticky film of bacteria called plaque that forms on the teeth, mainly along the gum line. In its early stages, called gingivitis, gum disease can be treated by Dr. Chris Boerger and often reversed.
To help keep your mouth and heart healthy, we’ve provided following tips to help prevent problems before they arise:
Brush your teeth with fluoride toothpaste at least twice a day. Make sure you brush gently beneath the gum line around each tooth.
Floss at least once a day.
Have a dental checkup and cleaning twice a year, or as recommended.
Eat a healthy diet. This includes avoiding foods with a high concentration of sugars or starches and consuming more fruits and vegetables.
Avoid tobacco and copious levels of alcohol. If you smoke, quit. And remember, heavy drinking dramatically increases the risk of developing mouth and throat cancer.
Don’t put off your next visit to Chris H. Boerger, DDS any longer! If it has been a while since your last visit to our Fairfield, OH office, please give us a call!
Tags:
Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments
Make Your Smile Dazzling For Your Wedding!
April 17th, 2019
Planning a wedding can be a highly stressful time. Dr. Chris Boerger and our team want to support you in this process by helping you achieve a beautiful, bright smile. Wedding days entail a lot of photographs that will last a lifetime. We know how crucial it can be that you have a smile that makes you feel confident throughout this memorable day.
Whether you’re the bride or groom, a member of the wedding party, or just a guest, a teeth-whitening treatment from Dr. Chris Boerger can give you extra confidence. Even when you’ve made the proper effort to keep up your oral health routine, staining still can appear on your teeth from foods and beverages over time. You can do several things to make sure your smile is in top shape before a wedding.
Our in-office whitening treatment is a good option if you’re looking for an investment that can last. If you’ve tried whitening kits on your own, you may have noticed they have to be used frequently to maintain the bright smile you desire.
Professional whitening treatments done by Chris H. Boerger, DDS are quite comfortable and have long-lasting effects. You can also use whitening toothpaste and mouthwash to keep your teeth bright between in-office whitening treatments.
Our staff can also provide helpful advice on how to avoid staining between your whitening treatment and the big day. If you’re concerned that you may have to hold back your smile on your wedding day or some other pending event, contact our Fairfield, OH office and ask about our whitening treatment options.
Tags:
Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments
Chewing Gum: Fact and Fiction
April 10th, 2019
Remember all the things your parents would tell you when you were growing up to scare you away from doing something? Like how lying might make your nose grow, misbehaving meant you wouldn’t get money from the tooth fairy, and swallowed chewing gum would build up in your stomach and stay there for years?
Maybe that last one stayed with you well beyond your teens, and occurred to you every time you accidentally (or purposely) swallowed a piece of gum. We don’t blame you. It’s a scary thought.
But is it true?
We hate to take the fun out of parental discipline, but swallowing a piece of chewing gum is pretty much like swallowing any other piece of food. It will move right through your digestive system with no danger of getting stuck for months, let alone seven years.
This doesn’t mean you should start swallowing all your gum from now on, but if it happens accidentally now and then, there’s no need to panic.
Another common gum myth is that sugar-free gum can help you lose weight. Although it is preferable to choose sugar-free gum over the extra-sweet variety, no studies have show that sugar-free gum will help you lose weight.
If you pop a piece of gum in your mouth after dinner to avoid dessert, it could help you avoid eating a few extra calories every day. But the consumption of sugar-free gum without any other effort will not help you shed pounds.
If you really enjoy chewing gum, we strongly encourage you to select sugarless gum, because it lowers your risk for cavities. Many brands of sugarless gum contain xylitol, a natural sweetener that can, in fact, help fight bacteria that cause cavities and rinse away plaque.
So if you can’t kick the gum habit altogether, sugar-free is definitely the way to go!
If you have any questions about chewing gum, feel free to contact Dr. Chris Boerger at our Fairfield, OH office.
Tags:
Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments
Common Causes of Gum Disease
April 3rd, 2019
Your gums are responsible for a large part of your overall oral health. So keeping them healthy and knowing how to detect gum disease is extremely important.
Since it’s often painless, gum disease may go unnoticed and can progress when left untreated. Understanding the causes of gum disease will give you the ability to keep your oral health in great shape:
Bacteria and Plaque. Good hygiene helps remove bacteria and plaque from teeth. When plaque is not removed, it turns into a rock-like substance called tartar, which can only be removed by a dentist.
Smoking and Tobacco. Smokers and tobacco users put themselves at a higher risk of developing gum disease. Tobacco use can also stain your teeth, give you bad breath, and increase the risk of oral cancer. It’s best to avoid using tobacco altogether.
Certain Medications. Ironically, certain medications for other health conditions can increase your risk of developing gum disease. Talk with Dr. Chris Boerger if you have concerns about a medication you are taking. Steroids, anti-epilepsy drugs, certain cancer therapy medications, and oral contraceptives can be among the culprits.
Medical Conditions. Certain medical conditions can also affect your gum health. Diabetics can have an increased risk of gum disease due to the inflammatory chemicals in their bodies. Talk to our team about your health condition so we can take that into account when treating you.
Luckily, there are actions you can take to prevent gum disease. You should make regular visits to our Fairfield, OH office for regular cleanings. It’s also worthwhile to maintain good hygiene habits at home, such as flossing and brushing at least two times every day.
Good oral hygiene practice and visits to our Fairfield, OH office can help you eliminate or reduce the risks of developing gum disease!
Tags:
Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments
Older Entries
Search Blog:
Search
Say Hello.
Fairfield Office 2842 Mack Road
Fairfield, OH 45014 (513) 860-3000
Send Us a Message
Website Powered by Sesame 24-7™ | | Site Map