Everything you ever wanted to know about urinary tract infections | Life and style | The Guardian
Skip to main content
The Guardian - Back to home
Support The Guardian
Available for everyone, funded by readers
Contribute Subscribe Contribute
Search jobs
Sign in My account
Comments & replies
Public profile
Account details
Emails & marketing
Membership
Contributions
Subscriptions
Sign out
Search
switch to the US edition
switch to the UK edition
switch to the Australia edition
switch to the International edition
current edition: US edition
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show More
News
US news
World news
Environment
Soccer
US politics
Business
Tech
Science
Opinion
The Guardian view
Columnists
Letters
Opinion videos
Cartoons
Sport
Soccer
NFL
Tennis
MLB
MLS
NBA
NHL
Culture
Film
Books
Music
Art & design
TV & radio
Stage
Classical
Games
Lifestyle
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Home & garden
Health & fitness
Family
Travel
Money
What term do you want to search?
Search with google
Make a contribution
Subscribe
US edition
switch to the UK edition
switch to the Australia edition
switch to the International edition
Search jobs
Digital Archive
Discount Codes
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Newsletters
Inside the Guardian
Guardian Weekly
Crosswords
Facebook
Twitter
Search jobs
Digital Archive
Discount Codes
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Home & garden
Health & fitness
Family
Travel
Money
More
Health & wellbeing
Everything you ever wanted to know about urinary tract infections
Millions of women suffer from UTIs, but they can strike men too. So why
are most tests not up to the job? And should we be reaching for the cranberry juice?
David Cox
Mon 3 Apr 2017 02.50 EDT Last modified on Fri 24 Nov 2017 22.18 EST
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share via Email
One-third of women suffer a UTI before the age of 24, and there can be a further peak later in life. Photograph: Guardian Design Team
In any given year, an estimated 4 million British women will suffer an attack of cystitis, a urinary tract infection (UTI) with typical symptoms of bladder pain and a burning sensation when passing urine. UTIs, which can range from bladder infections to kidney infections, are among the most common and debilitating bacterial infections, affecting more than 150 million people worldwide every year. Yet our ability to correctly diagnose and treat them remains limited.
Is it just women?
While statistics show that UTIs predominantly affect women, with one-third suffering a UTI before the age of 24 and one in 10 girls infected before the age of 16, they do affect men – especially when older – as a result of prostate problems. “I’m a bit suspicious that UTIs get overlooked in men, across the age range,” says Prof James Malone-Lee, who runs a specialist clinic for chronic UTIs at Whittington hospital in London. “But they are more common in women. There’s a peak when women become sexually active, and then a further increase in later life.”
How do these infections develop?
Scientists believe there is some element of genetic susceptibility because UTIs often run in families. “I’ve had a number of cases where I’ve treated the grandmother, the mother and the daughter,” Malone-Lee says. The common belief has been that these infections are caused by a single rogue bug invading the bladder, but some researchers are becoming increasingly sceptical about this because the healthy bladder isn’t sterile. Studies in the UK and US have measured more than 450 different bacteria in healthy bladders, while in patients with UTIs, about 600 bacteria have been measured.
“There appears to be some kind of perturbation in the balance of the microbes in the bladder, which contributes to these infections,” Malone-Lee says. “When we use DNA fingerprinting, we find the same kinds of bacteria in patients as in controls, but with some subtle variations. It’s possible that the infections could be the result of an upsurge in the numbers of a microbe that’s normally found in the bladder, but we don’t know for sure yet.”
How bad can it get?
Patients with acute UTIs such as cystitis are typically prescribed a short course of antibiotics. However, 20-30% of patients do not respond to these. If left unchecked, infections can become chronic and patients can end up in hospital with pyelonephritis. “This is a very severe urine infection where the kidneys are involved, and it requires an intravenous regime for two to three days,” Malone-Lee says. “The patients are very sick. They have very high temperatures, they’re vomiting, in a lot of pain, and if it isn’t brought under control, they can get septicaemia, which is life-threatening.”
Malone-Lee’s clinic specialises in what he describes as the “UTIs from hell” and he says one of the problems is that there is no contingency advice for doctors when patients with acute infections do not respond to treatment. “For the cases I see, on average it takes a year of antibiotic treatment to resolve their symptoms,” he says. “But there’s a wide variance. There are some people with infections we can’t get rid of, and we have to control the symptoms.”
Does water or cranberry juice help?
For decades, many have turned to cranberry juice as a means of curing UTIs. The perceived belief was that a compound in cranberries called proanthocyanidin is capable of inhibiting bacterial growth in the urinal tract, but recent research at Yale University suggests it is an urban myth. The study, done on 185 women living in nursing homes over the course of a year, found that cranberries had no notable effect on bacteria in urine.
Despite it being common GP advice, there is also little evidence that drinking water helps much at all as the bacteria responsible for the infection are either inside the cells of the bladder or attached to the cells via a slimy glue-like substance that they excrete, creating a biofilm. “You’re not going to wash them out,” Malone-Lee says. “But drinking water does dilute the urine, which means that when the patient gives a sample, the diagnostic tests that are typically used come back negative, making it appear that the patient has been cured.”
So should testing be improved?
Most GPs diagnose UTIs using standard urine culture and dipstick test diagnostics, but while cheap, these have been continuously criticised in the scientific literature for being too insensitive. “Studies in the US which tested these culture techniques misdiagnosed about 50% of acute cystitis cases,” Malone-Lee says. “In our clinic, we’ve repeated these experiments several times in people with chronic and recurrent UTIs and reached the same result. So you have this inaccuracy in the culture and you add to that the inherent inadequacies of the dipstick test itself.”
Malone-Lee believes that misdiagnosing patients who have a UTI as being all-clear is a particular problem because acute bladder infections need to be taken more seriously than they are. “There have been experiments on mice which show that if you hit these infections hard and aggressively at the beginning, you will clear them,” he says. “But if you don’t do anything, the microbes interact and alter the physiology of the bladder cells so they can invade and set up a chronic recalcitrant infection that is difficult to eradicate.”
In his clinic, he has found that a far more effective means of diagnosing UTIs has been to return to the original methods of the 1920s, which examined the numbers of white blood cells in the urine sample.“Ironically, the people who diagnose UTIs best are in the developing world because they examine the white cell count under microscopes,” he says. “It’s the cheapest option and has never been bettered as a diagnostic approach.”
Are there any other treatments on the horizon?
At the moment, the only solution for controlling and suppressing chronic UTIs is long-term antibiotics. As these infections typically hide inside the cells of the bladder or within biofilms, it can be impossible for antibiotics to eliminate them. However, scientists at University College London are investigating new means of targeting these infections using nanotechnology. Nanocapsules, containing an antibiotic, are easily taken up by bladder cells, thereby delivering a much larger dose of antibiotics specifically to the infected area, and all without any side-effects. These nanocapsules are likely to go into clinical trials in humans in two years’ time.
Topics
Health & wellbeing
features
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share via Email
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Pinterest
Share on WhatsApp
Share on Messenger
Reuse this content
View all comments >
Order by
newest
oldest
recommendations
Show 25
25
50
100
All
Threads
collapsed
expanded
unthreaded
Loading comments… Trouble loading?
View more comments
Signed in as Show comment Hide comment
Hide comment
Welcome , you’re about to make your first comment!
Before you post, we’d like to thank you for joining the debate - we’re glad you’ve chosen to participate and we value your opinions and experiences.
Please choose your username under which you would like all your comments to show up. You can only set your username once.
Username: Must be 6-20 characters, letters and/or numbers only, no spaces.
Please keep your posts respectful and abide by the community guidelines - and if you spot a comment you think doesn’t adhere to the guidelines, please use the ‘Report’ link next to it to let us know.
Please preview your comment below and click ‘post’ when you’re happy with it.
Post your comment
Cancel
Your comments are currently being pre-moderated (why?)
Please keep comments respectful and abide by the community guidelines.
Enter comment
Post your comment
Preview Hide preview Cancel
B
i
”
Link
Most popular
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Home & garden
Health & fitness
Family
Travel
Money
About us
Contact us
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Help
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Facebook
Twitter
Advertise with us
Guardian Labs
Search jobs
Dating
Discount Codes
Support The Guardian
Available for everyone, funded by readers
Contribute Subscribe
Back to top
© 2019 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
Close