cell phones and cancer
Your Online Health Information Site
Advertisement
Menu
Home Page
Medical Topics
A-C
Abdominal Pain
Anemia
Arthritis
Cancer
Cardiovascular Disease
Chromosomal Abnormalities
D-H
Dentistry
Digestive System And Gastrointestinal Disorders
Ear, Nose And Throat Diseases
Eye Diseases
Gynecology & Obstetrics
I-Z
Infectious Diseases
Lung Disease
Mental Illness
Neurological Disease
Skin Diseases
Close
Health Topics
A-C
Children’s Health
D-H
Drug Addiction
Health, Nutrition and Fitness
Health For Adolescents
Health For Adults
Health For Children
Health For Seniors
Hormones
I-Z
Men’s Health
Pain
Women’s Health
Close
About Dr. Ray Schilling
Overview Of Medicine
My Books
Close
News
Contact
Cell phones and cancer
November 21, 2018
by Ray Schilling
another mammalian strain, brain cancer, cancer, cell phone user, cell phones, DNA repair mechanisms, electromagnetic wave energy, heart schwannomas, lag time, safe limit for exposure
0 Comment
A new study on rats and mice appeared in a publication on cell phones and cancer. After 2 years of exposure of low and high intensity electromagnetic wave energy to 3000 rats the experiments showed the following. There were heart schwannomas that developed in male rats. But they did not develop in female rats. It was in the high intensity group that 6% of the male rats developed malignant schwannomas after 2 years.
Political engineering of the data
The researchers said that the experiments were not designed to measure safety of EMF in humans. One of the FDA comments came up in the discussion of the findings. They said that the rat experiments would not be relevant for human brain tumors. In addition there was the following comment. “We believe the existing safety limits for cell phones remain acceptable for protecting the public health.”
Discussion
Schwann cells in humans or in mammals like rats are there to protect nerve cells. It does not matter whether these are located in the brain or in the nerve fibers that help various heart muscle cells to let the heart beat in one accord. When EMF is causing cancer in these cells the cancer is called malignant schwannoma.
Schwannomas in rats are relevant for humans
It is very relevant that EMF can cause these tumors in another mammalian strain, namely rats, and this is indeed relevant to the human situation. The difficulty with respect to establish a safe limit for exposure to EMF remains a conundrum. In this Swedish publication from 2011 the researchers said that exposure of human brain tissue to EMF will cause brain cancer, but in a delayed fashion. Due to DNA repair mechanisms the onset of brain cancer in the first years is only about twofold from the background rate.
The researchers also said that there is a lag time of 30 years before the accelerated brain cancer rate shows. At that point cell phone users will experience a 25-fold increase of the incidence of brain cancer.
Lag period of cancer formation from EMF exposure
In a recent review of the subject I came to the conclusion that EMF does indeed cause cancer. But the lag period of up to 30 years clouds the picture, because most experiments do not last that long.
Cell phones and cancer
Conclusion
I have discussed this topic before. New evidence shows that another mammalian species, namely rats and also mice do develop malignant schwannomas in the heart after about 2 years of exposure. It shows that EMF does have some negative impact on tissues. But we know from other research that EMF damage may only show after 30 years because of DNA repair mechanism that cause a lag time before cancer develops. This is not reassuring but rather disconcerting, as this is a human experiment in progress, and you, as a cell phone user, are part of it.
Last modified: November 21, 2018
About the Author
Dr Ray Schilling is author of NetHealthbook and Askdrray.com His book A Survivor's Guide to Successful Aging is available on Amazon.
Social Share
Advertisement
NethealthBook.com
As a physician, Medical Adviser and Author Dr Ray Schilling has created Net Health Book for your benefit. Please also visit Dr. Rays Blog at AskDrRay.com
All books are posted on Amazon.com
Home Page
About Dr. Ray Schilling
News
Disclaimer
Contact
Certificates
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information
A Survivor’s Guide to Successful Aging
What if you could eat your way to better health, or slow down the aging clock with a few simple lifestyle tips? A Survivor’s Guide to Successful Aging, By Ray Schilling, explains how.
Prostate Cancer Unmasked
Prostate Cancer Unmasked analyzes 9 different treatment varieties of prostate cancer and their 10-year survival data.
Healing Gone Wrong – Healing Done Right
Treating symptoms does not cure the patient, but treating the cause of the illness will.In Healing Gone Wrong - Healing Done Right Dr.Ray Explains it all.
Medical Questions Answered
In Dr.Schillings new book titled Medical Questions Answered. Every question you always wanted to ask your doctor are answered.
Copyright © 2014 NetHealth Holdings Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Developed by Spincaster Productions Inc.