Reasons Collagen can be Good for your Joints | NinetyMilesProject.com
About Us
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Write For Us
Trending
November 22, 2018 Self-Care, Self-Exam: Knowing the ABCDE of Skin Cancer
November 21, 2018 Are You Sabotaging Your Own Acne Treatment?
November 20, 2018 The No-Shame Answers to Your Questions About Pooping While Popping a Baby
November 15, 2018 The Perfect Item For Your Holiday Gifts and Giveaways
November 13, 2018 Get the Professionals in
Project 90
Healthy Choices
Hard Look
Quicktake
Around the World
Lifestyle Changes
HomeHealthy Choices
Reasons Collagen can be Good for your Joints
March 31, 2016
Filed UnderHealthy Choices
Joint pains occur due to a damage to the bone and inflammation in the cartilage – two symptoms that collagen can help reduce, if not totally alleviate. Collagen supplements, in particular, have anti-inflammatory ingredients and are also rich in amino acids which are important in the building of joint cartilage.
Early Studies
Preliminary studies showed that taking collagen supplements can help reduce the pain of worn joints (osteoarthritis) as is the case in collagen peptide. Glucosamine and chondroitin supplements, while may not aid in collagen production, can help preserve this type of protein in our joints. How livestrong.com explains it:
“Glucosamine helps make up proteoglycans, which weave through your collagen to help lubricate it. The chondroitin in the supplements attracts fluids to the proteoglycans. Together, these two substances protect collagen and may help positively influence joint pain. This is particularly useful for arthritis as the wear and tear on your joints destroy collagen.”
While further studies are needed to support these findings, researchers that facilitated these conclude that these supplements can indeed benefit joint health. One strong proof is how it helps prevent further deterioration especially in high-risk people like older adults and athletes. It could also see more people turn to this supplement compared with placebo, according to a study.
In the meantime
Eating food that is rich in collagen or help produce it, while taking supplements, can bring better effects to joint health. Food rich in Vitamin C aid in collagen production, plus it plays a central role in cellular healing. Protein-rich food is also recommended to help replenish it. Red meat, dried beans, and cheese are a few sources of this.
Moreover, food high in anthocyanins can help kill enzymes that may harm the collagen as a result of inflammation. Anthocyanins can be found in food with bright hues as it is the responsible for it.
Studies about collagen supplements provide a mixed result as per its effects in reducing joint pains. The positive findings have to be taken further to see which populations can benefit from a type of collagen supplement.
Tagged WithCollagenosteoarthritis
Previous post
Next post
Related Posts
All You Need to Know about Collagen and its Functions
Latest Posts
Self-Care, Self-Exam: Knowing the ABCDE of Skin Cancer
November 22, 2018
Skin cancer is the most common type of cancer in the United States, and it’s also the most easily detected — often through self-exams. In…
Are You Sabotaging Your Own Acne Treatment?
November 21, 2018
Acne is more just an aesthetic problem. Apart from making your skin look dull, those red and bumpy spots on your face can also affect…
The No-Shame Answers to Your Questions About Pooping While Popping a Baby
November 20, 2018
As if popping an eight-pound baby out of the vagina isn’t overwhelming enough, pooping during childbirth also happens. Even though it’s natural, it’s a real…
The Perfect Item For Your Holiday Gifts and Giveaways
November 15, 2018
It’s the holiday season once again and get-togethers and dinner parties are about to fill everyone’s calendars once more. This year, give something that’s zero-waste…
Get the Professionals in
November 13, 2018
Refurbishing a room from top to bottom takes some thought. Wood floors or carpet? An accent wall or not? Not to mention fittings and furnishings….
How You Can Benefit from Having Braces
November 12, 2018
Crooked and overlapping teeth can make a person feel insecure. Other than the negative effects of this condition on your facial appearance, it could lead…
Hospice Care: What is It and Why is It Important?
November 6, 2018
Hospice care is a service that more people should avail of, especially those who care for their relatives in their last stages of life. It’s…
What Every Woman Should Know About Female Incontinence
October 25, 2018
Female incontinence is the involuntary or unintentional release of urine when you do certain physical activities that place pressure or stress on your bladder. These physical activities…
Health Tips
Categories
Around the World
Business
Dental Care
Hard Look
Health & Wellness
Healthy Choices
Lifestyle Changes
Project 90
Quicktake
Uncategorized
Latest Post
Self-Care, Self-Exam: Knowing the ABCDE of Skin Cancer
Are You Sabotaging Your Own Acne Treatment?
The No-Shame Answers to Your Questions About Pooping While Popping a Baby
Subscribe to US
Email
Email Address
Copyright © 2019 NinetyMilesProject.com