How to Naturally Reverse Cavities and Heal Tooth Decay?
Tuesday, April 23, 2019
Latest:
How to Enable Dark Mode on Laptop / PC, Mobile Phone, YouTube, Facebook Messenger, etc.?
Drones and Delivery Services: Beneficial or a Hindrance?
The Future of Plastic | Complete Essay with Outline
Top 3 Proven and Easy to Start Online Business Ideas that Make Money
#9: Your Weekly Vocabulary List
Tech Urdu
Let's Tech it!
PSC/CSS
Download Books/Notes
Compulsory Subjects
Optional Subjects
Miscellaneous Stuff
Essays for Competative Examinations
English Precis & Composition
General Science & Ability
Current Affairs
Pakistan Affairs
Islamic Studies
Optional Subjects
Android/iOS
Pak Developers
Education & Learning Apps
Health & Fitness Apps
Kids Corner
Mobile Customization App & Tricks
Mobile Games
Android/iOS
TechNews
Tips & Tricks
Reports and Reviews
Tech Myths
Earning$
YouTube Earning – A to Z
Earn Money by Mobile
Tips&Tricks
Whats App Tips & Tricks
Facebook Tips & Tricks
Tech Know
Wifi Tips & Tricks
Tutorials & Easy Installations
PC-I to PC-V Complete Tutorial
MS Office Tips & Tricks
Unboxing
Mobile
Camera
Gadgets Unboxing and Reviews
Laptop
About
Contact
Privacy Policy and Disclaimer
Videos on Demand
Giveaways & Surprises
Majestic Pakistan
Forestrypedia
Health & Fitness
How to Naturally Reverse Cavities and Heal Tooth Decay?
January 26, 2019 January 26, 2019 Naeem Javid	0 Comments Don’t use covers for your toothbrush, Natural Ways to Reverse Cavities and Heal Tooth Decay
8 Natural Ways to Reverse Cavities and Heal Tooth Decay.
Teeth, just like any other part of your body, require your attention and proper care. If you don’t like or don’t want to visit the dentist, you can try to prevent dental decay on your own.
There are so simple and natural tricks that you can adopt to prevent tooth decay and even reverse cavities.
Contents
Clean and Change Your Toothbrush Regularly
Change Your Eating Habits
Chew Sugarless Gum
Add Supplements and Vitamins to Your Diet
Follow a Basic Dental Care Routine
Visit Your Dentist for Regular Cleanings
Coconut Oil Pulling
Make Your Own Remineralizing Toothpaste
Related
Clean and Change Your Toothbrush Regularly
Important things to note and comply upon
Always pick a small or a medium-sized brush, and make sure that its bristles can reach into the crevices of your molar teeth where food remains can hide after you eat.
Don’t use covers for your toothbrush because they may harbour microorganisms and bacteria. Instead, just rinse your brush with water after each use, and leave it to air dry.
Don’t leave your brush in the same room as your toilet since faecal bacteria can end up on it.
Change your toothbrush regularly because its bristles deteriorate with time and usage. As a result, you don’t clean your teeth as well as with a new toothbrush.
Change Your Eating Habits
Switching to a healthy diet not only helps in maintaining your body but also boosts your health. A study published in The British Medical Journal suggested that a change in diet can actually reverse tooth decay.
The consumption of products rich in sugar leads to teeth decay and that phytic acid can block the absorption of calcium.
So, what should we do and what should we focus on? Here are some important tips.
Get more calcium. It’s the main building component of your bones and teeth. Eat dairy products every day (milk, yoghurt, sour cream, and cheese).
Drink unsweetened beverages. Avoid drinking sodas, juices, and fizzy drinks. You can try simple water, fruit smoothies, and unsweetened tea.
Water has a lot of good effects on your body including increased hydration and a higher flow of saliva.
Chew Sugarless Gum
Surprised, it might sound ironic, but chewing sugarless gum can actually help you prevent tooth decay.
Most sugarless gums contain a component called xylitol, which is a natural sweetener. Unlike food, xylitol does not lead to the growth of bacteria in your mouth. Plus, when you chew, your mouth fills with saliva that can naturally wash off food remains.
Add Supplements and Vitamins to Your Diet
It is another way to help your saliva fight dental plaque. Vitamins are essential for establishing the good health of your teeth. So, what should you do?
To promote salivation, you need to consume a lot of foods rich in fiber such as fruits, nuts, and vegetables. The best ones are apples, bananas, Brussels sprouts, and peas.
Eat whole grain foods. They contain a lot of vitamin B and iron. In addition, whole grains contain magnesium, a mineral that helps absorb calcium and strengthen your teeth.
Eat seafood more often if you want to get more vitamin D from your meals. Salmon, herrings, canned tuna, and sardines are a great source of vitamin D.
Follow a Basic Dental Care Routine
If you want to protect your teeth from early decay, include the following steps in your dental care routine in the morning and before going to bed.
Brush your teeth for 2 minutes at least twice a day. Try to brush all the surfaces of your teeth, reaching out to the farthest corners.
Floss your teeth. Sometimes even brushing doesn’t work as well as flossing. Use floss to pull out any remaining food from underneath your gums, and try to get to the germs that are stuck there.
Use mouthwash. Any mouthwash has an antibacterial effect and helps you get rid of any remaining bacteria in your mouth. Don’t rinse your mouth with water — the effect will last longer.
Visit Your Dentist for Regular Cleanings
No matter how well you brush or floss your teeth, there will always be areas that are hard to reach.
A dentist will clean near the gum line on the back and front of your teeth to remove any plaque and tartar.
Regular cleaning is a very important step in the fight against cavities. Many people say that they enjoy cleanings and the lovely smooth feel of their teeth afterwards.
Make sure that you book an appointment at least once or twice a year.
Coconut Oil Pulling
Want to know another good way to use coconut oil, try coconut pulling to naturally protect your teeth from decay.
The oil pulls bacteria out of your teeth and naturally heals them.
Simply swish a tablespoon of coconut oil in your mouth for 20 minutes until your saliva and the oil turn a milky white colour. Don’t swallow it. It’s so simple yet so effective!
Oil pulling does not reverse the effects of tooth decay, but it helps prevent cavities.
By the way, it works twice as effectively alongside brushing and flossing.
Make Your Own Remineralizing Toothpaste
This simple toothpaste recipe requires only a few natural ingredients that you can buy from every store.
Since you make it yourself, you can be sure that all the components are natural and won’t harm your health. You’ll need the following ingredients to make the toothpaste:
4 tbsp calcium powder
1 tbsp stevia
1 tbsp sea salt
2 tbsp baking soda
1/4 cup coconut oil
Mix all the ingredients until you get a paste. It should be even with no crumbs. Use it as a substitute for your regular toothpaste.
Remember: Don’t use this toothpaste for more than 30 days in a row due to its abrasive structure and absence of fluoride.
Do you know any other tricks that might help prevent teeth decay? Share your ideas and experience in the comments.
Related
← How to Use Your Old Mobile Phone as Security Camera?
#6: Your Weekly Vocabulary List →
Naeem Javid
Naeem Javid Muhammad Hassani is working as Deputy Conservator of Forests in Balochistan Forest & Wildlife Department. He is the founder of Tech Urdu Tree (forestrypedia.com, majesticpakistan.pk & their YouTube Channels). He is an Environmentalist, Blogger, YouTuber, Developer & Vlogger.
Please, Let us know what you think?	Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Tech Urdu on YouTube
Latest on Tech Urdu
Uncategorized
How to Enable Dark Mode on Laptop / PC, Mobile Phone, YouTube, Facebook Messenger, etc.?
April 21, 2019 Naeem Javid 0
Contents How to Enable Dark Mode on YouTube?How to Enable Dark Mode on Messenger?How to Enable Night Mode on Android
Gadgets Reports and Reviews
Drones and Delivery Services: Beneficial or a Hindrance?
April 21, 2019 Naeem Javid 0
EcoTech Essays for Competative Examinations PSC/CSS
The Future of Plastic | Complete Essay with Outline
April 15, 2019 Naeem Javid 0
Earn Money by Mobile Earning from Blog/Website Earning Money YouTube Earning - A to Z
Top 3 Proven and Easy to Start Online Business Ideas that Make Money
April 14, 2019 Naeem Javid 0
English Precis & Composition PSC/CSS
#9: Your Weekly Vocabulary List
April 7, 2019 Naeem Javid 0
Tips & Tricks Tutorials & Easy Installations
How to Protect Your USB by Encrypting?
April 4, 2019 Naeem Javid 0
Android/iOS Mobile Customization App & Tricks Tips & Tricks Wifi Tips & Tricks
How to Create WiFi Hotspot to Share Mobile Internet?
April 4, 2019 Naeem Javid 0
General Science & Ability Health & Fitness Miscellaneous
5 Things Successful People like Bill Gates do on Weekends to Make Their Mondays More Productive
April 1, 2019 Naeem Javid 0
Top Downloads
1250 Abbreviations and Acronyms 4716 downloads 117.55 KB
Download
General Knowledge of World and Pakistan 3517 downloads 1.63 MB
Download
A Practical English Grammar by A.J. Thomson and A.V. Martinet (4th Edition) 2261 downloads 1.94 MB
Download
Current Affairs MCQs 2018 1718 downloads 11.54 MB
Download
Complete Essays by CSPs 1713 downloads 763.37 KB
Download
English Prepositions Listed 1163 downloads 644.23 KB
Download
Pakistan Studies Notes (Question-Answer Format) 1026 downloads 1.71 MB
Download
Pakistan Affairs Solved MCQs 1014 downloads 2.95 MB
Download
Pakistan Affairs MCQs Book 923 downloads 1.55 MB
Download
Pakistan Affairs Solved CSS MCQs (2005 50 2013) 917 downloads 696.56 KB
Download
Top Posts
How to Recover a Deleted Facebook Post?
How to track a SWITCHED OFF Phone?
Download FREE Books/Notes for FPSC/KPSC/PPSC/BPSC/SPSC or CSS/PMS/PCS/IAS, etc Exams
Swift Code & IBAN: How to Get These? The Easiest Way
HOW TO SOLVE WRONG GMAIL/EMAIL ID PROBLEM ON PIFRA? HOW TO UNSUBSCRIBE EMAIL ID TO PIFRA[Urdu/Hindi]
Use Wikipedia OFFLINE on PC/Mobile
https://youtu.be/atBT4xF6Pk8
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Subscribe
Join Us on Facebook
Join Us on Facebook
Naeem Javid Muhammad Hassani
Working as Deputy Conservator of Forest Balochistan Forest & Wildlife Department.
NJMH is M.Sc Forestry from PFI Peshawar. Tech is his Passion and he loves being a part of it.
Copyright © 2019 Tech Urdu. All rights reserved.
Theme: ColorMag by ThemeGrill. Powered by WordPress.