Urinary Tract Infections in Adults What is a urinary tract infection (UTI)?
SpotiDoc
Explore
Log in
Create new account
Download Report
health and fitness
disease
incontinence
+
Urinary Tract Infections in Adults What is a urinary tract infection (UTI)?
Urinary Tract
Infections in Adults
National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse
What is a urinary tract
infection (UTI)?
U.S. Department
of Health and
Human Services
NATIONAL
INSTITUTES
OF HEALTH
A UTI is an infection in the urinary
tract. Infections are caused by
microbes—organisms too small to be seen
without a microscope—including fungi,
viruses, and bacteria. Bacteria are the most
common cause of UTIs. Normally, bacteria that enter the urinary tract are rapidly
removed by the body before they cause
symptoms. However, sometimes bacteria
overcome the body’s natural defenses and
cause infection. An infection in the urethra
is called urethritis. A bladder infection is
called cystitis. Bacteria may travel up the
ureters to multiply and infect the kidneys.
A kidney infection is called pyelonephritis.
Kidney
Ureter
Bladder
Urethra
What is the urinary tract?
The urinary tract is the body’s drainage
system for removing wastes and extra water.
The urinary tract includes two kidneys, two
ureters, a bladder, and a urethra. The kidneys are a pair of bean-shaped organs, each
about the size of a fist and located below the
ribs, one on each side of the spine, toward
the middle of the back. Every minute, a person’s kidneys filter about 3 ounces of blood,
removing wastes and extra water. The wastes
and extra water make up the 1 to 2 quarts of
urine a person produces each day. The urine
travels from the kidneys down two narrow
The urinary tract
tubes called the ureters. The urine is then
stored in a balloonlike organ called the bladder and emptied through the urethra, a tube
at the bottom of the bladder.
When the bladder empties, a muscle called
the sphincter relaxes and urine flows out of
the body through the urethra. The opening
of the urethra is at the end of the penis in
males and in front of the vagina in females.
What causes UTIs?
Most UTIs are caused by bacteria that live
in the bowel. The bacterium Escherichia coli
(E. coli) causes the vast majority of UTIs.
Microbes called Chlamydia and Mycoplasma
can infect the urethra and reproductive
system but not the bladder. Chlamydia
and Mycoplasma infections may be sexually
transmitted and require treatment of sexual
partners.
The urinary tract has several systems to prevent infection. The points where the ureters
attach to the bladder act like one-way valves
to prevent urine from backing up toward the
kidneys, and urination washes microbes out
of the body. In men, the prostate gland produces secretions that slow bacterial growth.
In both sexes, immune defenses also prevent
infection. But despite these safeguards,
infections still occur. Certain bacteria have
a strong ability to attach themselves to the
lining of the urinary tract.
How common are UTIs in
adults?
Urinary tract infections are the second
most common type of infection in the body,
accounting for about 8.1 million visits to
health care providers each year.1 Women are
especially prone to UTIs for anatomical reasons. One factor is that a woman’s urethra is
shorter, allowing bacteria quicker access to
the bladder. Also, a woman’s urethral opening is near sources of bacteria from the anus
and vagina. For women, the lifetime risk
of having a UTI is greater than 50 percent.2
UTIs in men are not as common as in women
but can be serious when they occur.
Who is at risk for a UTI?
Although everyone has some risk, some
people are more prone to getting UTIs than
others. People with spinal cord injuries or
other nerve damage around the bladder have
difficulty emptying their bladder completely,
allowing bacteria to grow in the urine that
stays in the bladder. Anyone with an abnormality of the urinary tract that obstructs the
flow of urine—a kidney stone or enlarged
prostate, for example—is at risk for a UTI.
People with diabetes or problems with the
body’s natural defense system are more likely
to get UTIs.
1Schappert SM, Rechtsteiner EA. Ambulatory medical
care utilization estimates for 2006. National health
statistics reports; no 8. Hyattsville, MD: National
Center for Health Statistics; 2008.
2Griebling TL. Urinary tract infection in women.
In: Litwin MS, Saigal CS, eds. Urologic Diseases in
America. Department of Health and Human Services,
Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health,
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and
Kidney Diseases. Washington, D.C.: GPO; 2007.
NIH publication 07–5512:587–619.
2 Urinary Tract Infections in Adults
Sexual activity can move microbes from
the bowel or vaginal cavity to the urethral
opening. If these microbes have special
characteristics that allow them to live in
the urinary tract, it is harder for the body
to remove them quickly enough to prevent
infection. Following sexual intercourse,
most women have a significant number of
bacteria in their urine, but the body normally
clears them within 24 hours. However, some
forms of birth control increase the risk of
UTI. In some women, certain spermicides
may irritate the skin, increasing the risk of
bacteria invading surrounding tissues. Using
a diaphragm may slow urinary flow and allow
bacteria to multiply. Condom use is also
associated with increased risk of UTIs, possibly because of the increased trauma that
occurs to the vagina during sexual activity.
Using spermicides with diaphragms and condoms can increase risk even further.
Another common source of infection is
catheters, or tubes, placed in the urethra
and bladder. Catheters interfere with the
body’s ability to clear microbes from the
urinary tract. Bacteria travel through or
around the catheter and establish a place
where they can thrive within the bladder. A
person who cannot urinate in the normal way
or who is unconscious or critically ill often
needs a catheter for more than a few days.
The Infectious Diseases Society of America
recommends using catheters for the shortest
time possible to reduce the risk of a UTI.3
Recurrent Infections
Many women suffer from frequent UTIs.
About 20 percent of young women with a
first UTI will have a recurrent infection.4
With each UTI, the risk that a woman will
continue having recurrent UTIs increases.5
Some women have three or more UTIs a
year. However, very few women will have
frequent infections throughout their lives.
More typically, a woman will have a period
of 1 or 2 years with frequent infections, after
which recurring infections cease.
Men are less likely than women to have a
first UTI. But once a man has a UTI, he is
likely to have another because bacteria can
hide deep inside prostate tissue. Anyone
who has diabetes or a problem that makes it
hard to urinate may have repeat infections.
Research funded by the National Institutes
of Health (NIH) suggests that one factor
behind recurrent UTIs may be the ability of
bacteria to attach to cells lining the urinary
3Hooton TM, et al. Diagnosis, prevention, and
treatment of catheter-associated urinary tract infection
in adults: 2009 international clinical practice guidelines
from the Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Clinical Infectious Diseases. 2010;50(5):625–663.
4Tolkoff-Rubin NE, Cotran RS, Rubin RH. Urinary
tract infection, pyelonephritis, and reflux nephropathy.
In: Brenner BM, ed. Brenner & Rector’s The Kidney.
8th ed. Vol. 2. Philadelphia: Saunders; 2008:
1203–1238.
5Schaeffer AJ. Infections of the urinary tract. In:
Walsh PC, Retik AB, Vaughan ED, Wein AJ, eds.
Campbell’s Urology. 8th ed. Vol. 1. Philadelphia:
Saunders; 2002: 515–602.
3 Urinary Tract Infections in Adults
tract. One NIH-funded study found that
bacteria formed a protective film on the
inner lining of the bladder in mice.6 If a similar process can be demonstrated in humans,
the discovery may lead to new treatments
to prevent recurrent UTIs. Another line
of research has indicated that women who
are “nonsecretors” of certain blood group
antigens may be more prone to recurrent
UTIs because the cells lining the vagina and
urethra may allow bacteria to attach more
easily. A nonsecretor is a person with an A,
B, or AB blood type who does not secrete
the normal antigens for that blood type in
bodily fluids, such as fluids that line the bladder wall.7
Infections during Pregnancy
Pregnant women seem no more prone to
UTIs than other women. However, when
a UTI does occur in a pregnant woman,
it is more likely to travel to the kidneys.
According to some reports, about 4 to
5 percent of pregnant women develop
a UTI.8 Scientists think that hormonal
changes and shifts in the position of the
urinary tract during pregnancy make it easier
for bacteria to travel up the ureters to the
kidneys and cause infection. For this reason,
6Anderson GG, Palermo JJ, Schilling JD, et al.
Intracellular bacterial biofilm-like pods in urinary tract
infections. Science. 2003;301:105–107.
7Stapleton AE, Nudelman E, Clausen H, Hakomori
S, Stamm WE. Binding of uropathogenic Escherichia
coli R45 to glycolipids extracted from vaginal epithelial
cells is dependent on histo-blood group secretor status.
Journal of Clinical Investigation. 1992;90;965–972.
8Sharma
JB, Aggarwal S, Singhal S, Kumar S, Roy
KK. Prevalence of urinary incontinence and other
urological problems during pregnancy: a questionnaire
based study. Archives of Gynecology and Obstetrics.
2009;279(6):845–851.
4 Urinary Tract Infections in Adults
health care providers routinely screen pregnant women for bacteria in the urine during
the first 3 months of pregnancy.
Are UTIs serious?
Most UTIs are not serious, but some infections can lead to serious problems, such
as kidney infections. Chronic kidney
infections—infections that recur or last a
long time—can cause permanent damage,
including kidney scars, poor kidney function,
high blood pressure, and other problems.
Some acute kidney infections—infections
that develop suddenly—can be life threatening, especially if the bacteria enter the bloodstream, a condition called septicemia.
What are the signs and
symptoms of a UTI?
Symptoms of a UTI vary by age, gender, and
whether a catheter is present. Among young
women, UTI symptoms typically include a
frequent and intense urge to urinate and a
painful, burning feeling in the bladder or
urethra during urination. The amount of
urine may be very small. Older women and
men are more likely to be tired, shaky, and
weak and have muscle aches and abdominal pain. Urine may look cloudy, dark, or
bloody or have a foul smell. In a person
with a catheter, the only symptom may be
fever that cannot be attributed to any other
cause. Normally, UTIs do not cause fever if
they are in the bladder. A fever may mean
the infection has reached the kidneys or has
penetrated the prostate. Other symptoms of
a kidney infection include pain in the back or
side below the ribs, nausea, and vomiting.
How are UTIs diagnosed?
To find out whether a person has a UTI, the
health care provider will ask about urinary
symptoms and then test a sample of urine
for the presence of bacteria and white blood
cells, which are produced by the body to fight
infection. Because bacteria can be found
in the urine of healthy individuals, a UTI is
diagnosed based both on symptoms and a
laboratory test. The person will be asked to
give a “clean catch” urine sample by washing
the genital area and collecting a “midstream”
sample of urine in a sterile container. This
method of collecting urine helps prevent
bacteria around the genital area from getting into the sample and confusing the test
results. Usually, the sample is sent to a laboratory, although some health care providers’
5 Urinary Tract Infections in Adults
offices are equipped to do the testing. For
people with recurring infections and patients
in the hospital, the urine may be cultured.
The culture is performed by placing part of
the urine sample in a tube or dish with a substance that encourages any bacteria present
to grow. Once the bacteria have multiplied,
which usually takes 1 to 3 days, they can be
identified. The health care provider may
also order a sensitivity test, which tests the
bacteria for sensitivity to different antibiotics
to see which medication is best for treating
the infection.
If a person has recurrent UTIs, the health
care provider may order some additional
tests to determine if the person’s urinary
tract is normal.
Kidney and bladder ultrasound. Ultrasound
uses a device, called a transducer, that
bounces safe, painless sound waves off
organs to create an image of their structure.
The procedure is performed in a health
care provider’s office, outpatient center, or
hospital by a specially trained technician, and
the images are interpreted by a radiologist—
a doctor who specializes in medical imaging; anesthesia is not needed. The images
can show abnormalities in the kidneys and
bladder. However, this test cannot reveal all
important urinary abnormalities or measure
how well the kidneys work.
Voiding cystourethrogram. This test is an
x-ray image of the bladder and urethra taken
while the bladder is full and during urination,
also called voiding. As the person lies on the
x-ray table, a health care provider inserts the
tip of a thin, flexible tube called a catheter
through the urethra into the bladder. The
bladder and urethra are filled with a special dye called contrast medium, to make
the structures clearly visible on the x-ray
images. The x rays are taken from various
angles while the bladder is full of contrast
medium. The catheter is then removed and
x-ray images are taken during urination. The
procedure is performed in a health care provider’s office, outpatient center, or hospital
by an x-ray technician. The technician is
supervised by a radiologist while the images
are taken. The radiologist then interprets
the images. Anesthesia is not needed, but
light sedation may be used for some people.
This test can show abnormalities of the
inside of the urethra and bladder. The test
can also determine whether the flow of urine
is normal when the bladder empties.
6 Urinary Tract Infections in Adults
Computerized tomography (CT) scan. CT
scans use a combination of x rays and computer technology to create three-dimensional
(3-D) images. A CT scan may include the
injection of contrast medium. CT scans
require the person to lie on a table that slides
into a tunnel-shaped device where the x rays
are taken. The procedure is performed in
an outpatient center or hospital by an x-ray
technician, and the images are interpreted
by a radiologist; anesthesia is not needed.
CT scans can provide clearer, more detailed
images to help the health care provider
understand the problem.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). MRI
machines use radio waves and magnets
to produce detailed pictures of the body’s
internal organs and soft tissues without using
x rays. An MRI may include an injection of
contrast medium. With most MRI machines,
the person lies on a table that slides into
a tunnel-shaped device that may be open
ended or closed at one end; some newer
machines are designed to allow the person to
lie in a more open space. The procedure is
performed in an outpatient center or hospital by a specially trained technician, and
the images are interpreted by a radiologist;
anesthesia is not needed though light sedation may be used for people with a fear of
confined spaces. Like CT scans, MRIs can
provide clearer, more detailed images.
Radionuclide scan. A radionuclide scan
is an imaging technique that relies on the
detection of small amounts of radiation after
injection of radioactive chemicals. Because
the dose of the radioactive chemicals is small,
the risk of causing damage to cells is low.
Special cameras and computers are used to
create images of the radioactive chemicals as
they pass through the kidneys. Radionuclide
scans are performed in a health care provider’s office, outpatient center, or hospital by a
specially trained technician, and the images
are interpreted by a radiologist; anesthesia is
not needed. Radioactive chemicals injected
into the blood can provide information about
kidney function. Radioactive chemicals can
also be put into the fluids used to fill the
bladder and urethra for x ray, MRI, and CT
imaging.
Urodynamics. Urodynamic testing is any
procedure that looks at how well the bladder, sphincters, and urethra are storing and
releasing urine. Most of these tests are
performed in the office of a urologist—a
doctor who specializes in urinary problems—
by a urologist, physician assistant, or nurse
7 Urinary Tract Infections in Adults
practitioner. Some procedures may require
light sedation to keep a person calm. Most
urodynamic tests focus on the bladder’s
ability to hold urine and empty steadily and
completely. Urodynamic tests can also show
whether the bladder is having abnormal
contractions that cause leakage. A health
care provider may order these tests if there
is evidence that the person has some kind of
nerve damage.
Cystoscopy. Cystoscopy is a procedure that
uses a tubelike instrument to look inside the
urethra and bladder. Cystoscopy is performed by a doctor in a health care provider’s office, outpatient facility, or hospital with
local anesthesia. However, in some cases,
sedation and regional or general anesthesia are needed. Cystoscopy may be used to
look for swelling, redness, and other signs of
infection.
How are UTIs treated?
Most UTIs are caused by bacteria, which are
treated with bacteria-fighting medications
called antibiotics or antimicrobials. The
choice of medication and length of treatment depend on the patient’s history and the
type of bacteria causing the infection. Some
antibiotics may be ruled out if a person has
allergies to them. The sensitivity test takes
48 hours to complete and is especially useful
in helping the health care provider select
the antibiotic most likely to be effective in
treating an infection. Longer treatment may
be needed if the first antibiotic given is not
effective.
When a UTI occurs in a healthy person with
a normal, unobstructed urinary tract, the
term uncomplicated is used to describe the
infection. Most young women who have
UTIs have uncomplicated UTIs, which
can be cured with 2 or 3 days of treatment.
Single-dose treatment is less effective.
Longer treatment causes more side effects
and is not more effective. A follow-up
urinalysis helps to confirm the urinary tract
is infection-free. Taking the full course of
treatment is important because symptoms
may disappear before the infection is fully
cleared.
8 Urinary Tract Infections in Adults
Complicated UTIs occur when a person—for
example, a pregnant woman or a transplant
patient—is weakened by another condition.
A UTI is also complicated when the person
has a structural or functional abnormality
of the urinary tract, such as an obstructive
kidney stone or prostate enlargement that
squeezes the urethra. Health care providers should assume that men and boys have a
complicated UTI until proven otherwise.
Severely ill patients with kidney infections
may be hospitalized until they can take
fluids and needed medications on their own.
Kidney infections may require several weeks
of antibiotic treatment. Kidney infections
in adults rarely lead to kidney damage or
kidney failure unless they go untreated or are
associated with urinary tract obstruction.
Bladder infections are generally self-limiting,
but antibiotic treatment significantly shortens
the duration of symptoms. People usually
feel better within a day or two of treatment.
Symptoms of kidney and prostate infections last longer. Drinking lots of fluids and
urinating frequently will speed healing. If
needed, various medications are available to
relieve the pain of a UTI. A heating pad on
the back or abdomen may also help.
Recurrent Infections in Women
Complicated Infections
Health care providers may advise women
who have recurrent UTIs to try one of the
following treatment options:
Curing infections that stem from a urinary
obstruction or other systemic disorder
depends on finding and correcting the underlying problem, sometimes with surgery. If
the root cause goes untreated, this group of
patients is at risk for kidney damage. Also,
such infections tend to arise from a wider
range of bacteria and sometimes from more
than one type of bacteria at a time.
• Take low doses of the prescribed antibiotic daily for 6 months or longer.
If taken at bedtime, the medication
remains in the bladder longer and may
be more effective. NIH-supported
research has shown this therapy to be
effective without causing serious side
effects.
• Take a single dose of an antibiotic after
sexual intercourse.
• Take a short course—2 or 3 days—of an
antibiotic when symptoms appear.
To try to prevent an infection, health care
providers may suggest women
• drink plenty of water every day
• urinate when the need arises and avoid
resisting the urge to urinate
• urinate after sexual intercourse
• switch to a different method of birth
control if recurring UTIs are a problem
Infections during Pregnancy
During pregnancy, bacterial infection of the
urine—even in the absence of symptoms—
can pose risks to both the mother and the
baby. Some antibiotics are not safe to take
during pregnancy. In selecting the best treatments, health care providers consider various
factors such as the medication’s effectiveness, the stage of pregnancy, the mother’s
health, and potential effects on the fetus.
9 Urinary Tract Infections in Adults
Infections in Men
Urinary tract infections in men are often the
result of an obstruction—for example, a urinary stone or enlarged prostate—or are from
a catheter used during a medical procedure.
The first step in treating such an infection
is to identify the infecting organism and the
medications to which it is sensitive.
Prostate infections—chronic bacterial
prostatitis—are harder to cure because antibiotics may be unable to penetrate infected
prostate tissue effectively. For this reason,
men with bacterial prostatitis often need
long-term treatment with a carefully selected
antibiotic. UTIs in men are frequently
associated with acute bacterial prostatitis,
which can be life threatening if not treated
urgently.
How can recurrent UTIs be
prevented?
Changing some daily habits may help a person prevent recurrent UTIs.
or spermicidal condoms increase irritation,
which may help bacteria grow. Switching to
lubricated condoms without spermicide or
using a nonspermicidal lubricant may help
prevent UTIs.
Eating, Diet, and Nutrition
Drinking lots of fluid can help flush bacteria
from the system. Water is best. Most people
should try for six to eight, 8-ounce glasses a
day. A person who has kidney failure should
not drink this much fluid. A health care provider should be consulted to learn how much
fluid is healthy.
Urination Habits
A person should urinate often and when the
urge arises. Bacteria can grow when urine
stays in the bladder too long. Women and
men should urinate shortly after sex to flush
away bacteria that might have entered the
urethra during sex. Drinking a glass of water
will also help flush bacteria away.
After using the toilet, women should wipe
from front to back. This step is most important after a bowel movement to keep bacteria
from getting into the urethra.
Clothing
Cotton underwear and loose-fitting clothes
should be worn, so air can keep the area
around the urethra dry. Tight-fitting jeans
and nylon underwear should be avoided
because they can trap moisture and help
bacteria grow.
Birth Control
For women, using a diaphragm or spermicide
for birth control can lead to UTIs by increasing bacteria growth. A woman who has trouble with UTIs should try switching to a new
form of birth control. Unlubricated condoms
10 Urinary Tract Infections in Adults
Points to Remember
• Most urinary tract infections (UTIs)
arise from one type of bacteria,
Escherichia coli (E. coli), which
normally lives in the bowel.
• Symptoms of a UTI in adults may
include the following:
– a frequent and intense urge to
urinate
– a painful, burning feeling in
the bladder or urethra during
urination
– feeling tired, shaky, and weak
– muscle aches
– abdominal pain
– only small amounts of urine
passed, despite a strong urge to
urinate
– cloudy, dark, or bloody urine or
urine that has a foul smell
– pain in the back or side below
the ribs
– nausea and vomiting
• Fever may indicate a kidney or prostate infection.
• Because bacteria can be found in
the urine of healthy individuals, a
UTI is diagnosed based both on
symptoms and a laboratory test.
• UTIs are treated with bacteriafighting medications called antibiotics or antimicrobials.
Hope through Research
Acknowledgments
Scientists are working on developing a
vaccine that can prevent UTIs from coming back. Researchers are testing injected
and oral vaccines to see which works best.
Another method being considered for
women is to apply the vaccine directly as a
suppository in the vagina. Other scientists
are working on identifying ways to prevent
UTIs using probiotics.
Publications produced by the Clearinghouse
are carefully reviewed by both NIDDK scientists and outside experts. Betsy Foxman,
Ph.D., University of Michigan School of
Public Health, and Anthony Schaeffer,
M.D., Northwestern University Medical
School, reviewed the updated version of this
publication.
Participants in clinical trials can play a more
active role in their own health care, gain
access to new research treatments before
they are widely available, and help others
by contributing to medical research. For
information about current studies, visit
www.ClinicalTrials.gov.
For More Information
American Urological Association Foundation
1000 Corporate Boulevard
Linthicum, MD 21090
Phone: 1–800–828–7866
or 410–689–3990
Fax: 410–689–3998
Email: [email protected]
Internet: www.auafoundation.org
www.UrologyHealth.org
The Prostatitis Foundation
1063 30th Street, Box 8
Smithshire, IL 61478
Phone: 1–888–891–4200
Fax: 309–325–7184
Email: [email protected]
Internet: www.prostatitis.org
11 Urinary Tract Infections in Adults
You may also find additional information about this
topic by visiting MedlinePlus at www.medlineplus.gov.
This publication may contain information about
medications. When prepared, this publication
included the most current information available.
For updates or for questions about any medications,
contact the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
toll-free at 1–888–INFO–FDA (1–888–463–6332) or
visit www.fda.gov. Consult your health care provider
for more information.
National Kidney and
Urologic Diseases
Information Clearinghouse
3 Information Way
Bethesda, MD 20892–3580
Phone: 1–800–891–5390
TTY: 1–866–569–1162
Fax: 703–738–4929
Email: [email protected]
Internet: www.urologic.niddk.nih.gov
The National Kidney and Urologic Diseases
Information Clearinghouse (NKUDIC)
is a service of the National Institute of
Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
(NIDDK). The NIDDK is part of the
National Institutes of Health of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Established in 1987, the Clearinghouse
provides information about diseases of the
kidneys and urologic system to people with
kidney and urologic disorders and to their
families, health care professionals, and the
public. The NKUDIC answers inquiries,
develops and distributes publications, and
works closely with professional and patient
organizations and Government agencies
to coordinate resources about kidney and
urologic diseases.
This publication is not copyrighted. The Clearinghouse
encourages users of this publication to duplicate and
distribute as many copies as desired.
This publication is available at
www.urologic.niddk.nih.gov.
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
AND HUMAN SERVICES
National Institutes of Health
NIH Publication No. 12–2097
November 2011
The NIDDK prints on recycled paper with bio-based ink.
Management of Mootravahasrotogata Agantuja Vyadhi (UTI) By-Dr.K.M.Angadi
AQ f Urinary Tract Infections The American College of
Urinary Tract Infections What I need to know about Information Clearinghouse
Urinary Tract Infection in Adults National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse
Document 55613
Urinary Tract Infections
Urinary Tract Infection in Men
Urinary Tract Infections in Children What is a urinary tract infection (UTI)?
THE KIDNEY 9. Recurrent urinary tract infections The urinary tract
URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS IN ADULTS
URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS Beryl Navti SEPT Pharmacy Department
. 5 54 CHAPTER 50
Urinary Tract Infections and VUR in Children A parent’s guide
Document 20147
Objectives Urinary Tract Infections
Advances in Urological Infections Urinary Tract Infections
Committed to the advancement of Clinical & Industrial Disinfection &... Editorial
Your Urinary System and How It Works
T Tori Hudson, N.D. Causes of UTIs
Document 5369
Document 21673
Chronic Prostatitis in Spinal Cord
spotidoc.com
© Copyright 2019
About spotidoc
DMCA / GDPR
Report