Health & Wellness — Energy Is Everything
Home
About
Gage
Casey
Retreat Center
Sessions
More
Menu
Street Address
Redondo Beach, CA
Phone Number
Energy Is Everything EIE
Your Custom Text Here
Home
About
Gage
Casey
Retreat Center
Sessions
More
Dandelion Root
March 19, 2018 Gage Gorman and Casey Gervig
DANDELION CURES CANCER, HEPATITIS, LIVER, KIDNEYS, STOMACH … HERE’S HOW TO USE IT!
Dandelion root has been used as a therapy for many years. It is able to treat allergies, lower cholesterol levels, to improve bile production, and to detoxify the liver. Also, it has diuretic properties and if good for pregnant women and for those in menopause.
Spring is the best time to harvest dandelion roots, particularly in the beginning of April. It is best to pick it from places that are less polluted, such as areas away from town and the road.
You may not know that all parts of dandelion have medicinal properties. Its leaves are rich in vitamins and you can use them in a salad, or with potatoes and eggs.
Dandelion stem has the power to relieve stomach problems, boosts the function of the gallbladder, regulates metabolism, and purifies the blood. Also, the stem can be used to treat diabetes, while the milk from the stem can be used to remove warts.
In addition, people can use dandelion flowers to prepare homemade dandelion syrup. It will help your body to purify the blood, it relieves a cough and improves digestion.
Recipe for dandelion syrup
Pour 3 liters of water over 400 yellow dandelion flowers. Next, cut 4 oranges and 4 lemons into slices and add them to the mixture. Leave it for 24 hours.
After 24 hours, strain the mixture and place it in a pot. Add 2 cups of sugar into the pot and cook for 30 minutes. {Gage: I would recommend not using sugar and instead use honey, local if available}
Remove it after it boils and gets thick enough. Then, place the syrup in sterilized jars. Treat cold, cough, or bronchitis with this syrup.
Dandelion root – its health benefits and properties that can fight cancer
Dandelion is long used and popular for its medicinal properties. Nowadays, modern medicine validates the health benefits of this flower and says it is even able to cure cancer.
If you want to prepare and store dandelion roots, you need to peel, cut, and dry them on a fresh air. Leave them dry for 2 weeks or until they get brittle under the fingers. When they become dry, place them in a jar and keep it in a dark and cool place.
Dandelion roots are able to clean kidneys, liver, lymph, and gallbladder. It is helpful in treating gallstones, constipation, hepatitis, acne, edema, and rheumatism. Additionally, it is effective for women in prevention and treatment of problems with breastfeeding, cysts, tumors, and cancer.
This is how you can prepare dandelion tea:
Dry, chop and mince some dandelion leaves. Place the mixture in a jar and keep it for use in the future. Add half a teaspoon of this mixture in a glass of water and your tea is ready.
Another option is to combine 60 grams of a fresh mixture and 30 grams of dried dandelion root. Place the mixture in a pan with 2.5 ounces of water with a pinch of salt. Bring to a boil, cover the pan, and simmer for around 20 minutes. Then, strain the mixture and drink three cups every day.
Sourced from:
http://dailynativenews.site/2018/03/dandelion-cures-cancer-hepatitis-liver-kidneys-stomach-heres-how-to-use-it
Second Article:
Everyone has this plant but NOBODY knows that it makes cancer cells disintegrate within 48 hours
Back in 2009, a group of Canadian researchers from the University of Windsor in Ontario started investigating an abundant weed as a potential cure for cancer.
It all started when an oncologist came across something quite interesting with some cancer patients. Believe it or not, the plant we are talking about is the common dandelion!
A post-doctoral fellow at the University of Windsor named Pamela Ovadje has done an extensive work on the topic. She dealt with the anti-cancer properties of dandelion and similar extracts.
According to Ovadje,
“We had information from an oncologist, a collaborator here in Windsor, who had patients that showed improvement after taking dandelion root tea. And so, with a phone call, we decided to start studying what was in this tea that made patients respond to it, so we started digging up dandelions.”
She was quite suspicious in the beginning, but not because it was an all-natural source. “I figured dandelions are everywhere, and if there was something to it, people would have found this out already, “– she explained.
We should be glad to hear that the researchers have started conducting studies on dandelion root extract and its effects on cancer, as the results are more than amazing!
“Since the commencement of this project, we have been able to successfully assess the effect of a simple water extract of dandelion root in various human cancer cell types in the lab and we have observed its effectiveness against human T-cell leukemia, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, and pancreatic and colon cancers, with no toxicity to non-cancer cells. Furthermore, these efficacy studies have been confirmed in animal models (mice) that have been transplanted with human colon cancer cells.” (Source)
Dandelion root extract was approved for human trials in February 2015. Now, it is in Phase 1 trials for end-stage blood-related cancers, such as leukemia and lymphoma.
According to Dr. Siyaram Pandey, professor of chemistry and biochemistry at the University of Windsor and principal research investigator for the project, dandelion root extract has quite a “good potential” to cause a death of cancer cells.
How it works:
This extract causes cancer cells to go through apoptosis, a natural cell process where a cell activates an intracellular death program because it isn`t needed anymore. In brief, dandelion root extract causes the cancer cell to “commit suicide” without affecting the healthy ones.
Two cells perform apoptosis which is far better than chemotherapy drugs which kill one healthy cell for every 5 to 10 cancer cell, the dandelion extract.
It is important to mention that the concentration of this extract is much higher than the one which is currently available. Even though trials are still underway, this extract may be the future of cancer treatment!
If you would like to learn more about this, check out the following video. Dr. Siyaram Pandey’s explains how dandelion root causes the death of cancer cells within 24 hours.
Additional Sources:
http://www.davidwolfe.com/extract-cancer-cells-suicide-24-hours/
http://livingtraditionally.com/dandelion-root-cancer/
http://blogs.naturalnews.com/dandelion-long-pepper-extracts-anti-cancer-properties/
http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/calgary/calgary-anti-cancer-tea-1.3370691
http://undergroundhealthreporter.com/dandelion-tea-cancer-therapy/
http://www.ibtimes.com.au/canadian-scientists-claim-dandelion-extract-could-kill-skin-cancer-cells-48-hours-1469397
http://www.uwindsor.ca/dandelionrootproject/
Tags Dandelion Root, EnergyIsEverythingEIE, Energy Is Everything EIE
Comment
Growing Back Receding Gums with Natural Remedies
February 25, 2018 Gage Gorman and Casey Gervig
Enjoy these remedies I gathered from Organic Planner and Prepared By: Gage Gorman
Green Tea
A lot health benefits can be found in green tea, because it is full of antioxidants that fight the free radicals that can cause periodontal disease, which is leading to receding gums. It will strengthen the connection between the gums and teeth, and it will lower the swelling of the gums that cause oral diseases. Every morning when you wake up, drink 1 cup of green tea, and you will see the results.
Aloe Vera
Another gum problem-solver, is aloe vera. The health benefits that aloe vera has are mostly connected with skin problems, because it has many anti-inflammatory abilities and repairing capabilities. So now you are wondering how it will help you with receding gums? It will fight against inflammation and will turn on the cells which are very important for repairing of the tissues, and you won’t have another infection, because it has antibacterial ability.
There are 2 ways to use the gel from aloe vera. The first one is to use aloe vera gel like a mouthwash and for brushing. When you flossed and brushed your teeth put some aloe vera gel and after that once again brush the teeth and gums with aloe vera gel for around 3 to 5 minutes.
Another way is to use it like mouthwash. Every day after brushing, take a little bit of aloe vera and dissolve it in water, and then you can swirl it through your mouth.
Oil pulling
By forming a protective layer over your teeth, the sesame oil will reduce the chances of plague building. With this you will destroy the toxins in your mouth. It also can help with other oral diseases.
Warm up sesame oil, but do not overheat it. After brushing your teeth take sesame oil in your mouth and gargle it and swirl it around your mouth. You should do this a few minutes.
Coconut oil will reduce the chances of getting infections, which are reason for receding gums. By healing your cavity and prevent tooth decay this is one effective ingredient for treating receding gums.
After brushing your teeth take a little bit of coconut oil and use it as a mouthwash. The both methods are best to start using 1 to 2 minutes and to increase gradually. The goal is 15 to 20 minutes.
Eucalyptus
Essential oil is used for many homemade remedies , so you are maybe familiar with the health benefits from it. Germs and bacteria that are in your mouth can be destroyed with essential oil from the eucalyptus, and it will be your protection agains other oral diseases.
1 or 2 drops of this oil and 1 or 2 tablespoons of water is what you will need. But do not forget to dilute the essential oil before you put it in your gums. Apply it on your gums and massage it gently, with your toothbrush.
Myrrh
This will stop the recession of the gums and it will prevent additional damages to the gums. It is also used to cure different gums and mouth diseases.
You will need powdered myrrh. Make a paste from it but combining with water. Apply it on your gums and massage it gently just like in the previous method.
Clove oil
Toothache will be past if you use this oil. After every meal you can chew a clove, and remember that it needs to touch every side of your mouth. It will destroy the bacteria in your mouth and also bad breath. You can cure any oral diseases with this oil.
1 to 2 drops of clove oil will be needed to massage your gums with it, one to three times daily.
Lemon
Lemons are famos because of their antiseptic and antibacterial abilities. But too much of them can destroy the enamel on your teeth, so do not use lemon oil every day, just use it once every week. It will stimulate the growth of receding gums and it will destroy bad breath. This is how to prepare homemade lemon oil:
Ingredients:
– ¼ to ½ cup of olive oil
– ½ to 1 freshly squeezed lemon juice
Mix the olive oil in a jar with lemon juice. Now cover the jar and shake it well. Leave the mixture for a couple of weeks, but shake the jar every day. After three to four weeks you can start using the oil.
Massage your gums for a few minutes, with your fingers, but apply the lemon oil on your fingers before that, 2 times weekly.
Tips for preventing gum recession
It is also better to avoid the disease then to cure it. So there are a few ways to avoid oral diseases. Here are some tips.
Proper oral hygiene
The most important thing you need to do to avoid this problem.
– No aggressive brushing.
– Use gentle strokes and circular motion.
– Brush along your gym line, do not push the gums.
– Use a brush with small head and soft bristles.
– Floss!!!
– The best way to keep good oral hygiene is to floss and brush after every meal. If you are not able to do that then after every meal use a mouthwash.
Mouthwash for a clean mouth
Every day you need to free your mouth from bacteria and germs. This are some homemade remedies with essential oils.
– Mix 1 to 2 drops of essential oil, such as sage oil, peppermint, clove or tea tree oil and mix it with ¼ to ½ cups of water. Mix it well and use it every day.
-Hydrogen peroxide is another good way to protect your mouth, but remember to dilule it with water.
Water, water and water
Drinking water is healthy for the whole body, so it is good to keep your gums healthy too. This is why you should drink more water:
-You will get rid of the toxins from your mouth and your body.
-You will keep your mouth clean. Use water to clean any food that is left on your teeth after every meal.
Eat healthy
Having a proper diet, eating healthy food, like a lot of vegetables and fruits is good for your whole body. A lot of diseases starts with not eating healthy. Junk food will help to the bacteria in your mouth to grow which is leading to infections.
The best fruits and vegetables you should consume are the ones with vitamin C. Those are: strawberries, oranges, cauliflower, asparagus, broccoli, etc.
Try also to avoid cold drinks, and reduce or eliminate sugar consummation. Also do not drink alcohol, do not consume processed food, caffeine and anything that is made of white flour.
-Calcium is important for dental and bone health.
-Vitamin C will boost your immune system, and it has a lot anti-inflammatory abilities.
-Ginkgo biloba will improve your blood circulation, which is needed for healthy gums.
-Zinc will also boost your immune system and it will kill different bacteria that cause infection and oral diseases.
-Coenzume Q10 will renew your cells and it will help you to grow back your receding gums.
An Option for How and Where to Purchase Your Essential Oils:
Casey is a doTerra consultant and does treatments with essential oils.
When considering where to purchase your essential oils consider contacting us for your purchase. We offer consultations as well for essential oils purchased through us.
Tags Receding Gums, Natural Remedies, Gage Gorman, Casey Gervig, EnergyIsEverythingEIE, Energy Is Everything EIE
Comment
The Baking Soda Formula for Cancer
February 19, 2018 Gage Gorman and Casey Gervig
Even the most aggressive cancers which have metastasized have been reversed with baking soda cancer treatments. Although chemotherapy is toxic to all cells, it represents the only measure that oncologists employ in their practice to almost all cancer patients.
In fact, 9 out of 10 cancer patients agree to chemotherapy first without investigating other less invasive options.
Doctors and pharmaceutical companies make money from it. That's the only reason chemotherapy is still used. Not because it's effective, decreases morbidity, mortality or diminishes any specific cancer rates. In fact, it does the opposite. Chemotherapy boosts cancer growth and long-term mortality rates and oncologists know it.
A few years ago, University of Arizona Cancer Center member Dr. Mark Pagel received a $2 million grant from the National Institutes of Health to study the effectiveness of personalized baking soda cancer treatment for breast cancer.
Obviously, there are people in the know who have understood that sodium bicarbonate, that same stuff that can save a person's life in the emergency room in a heartbeat, is a primary cancer treatment option of the safest and most effective kind.
Studies have shown that dietary measures to boost bicarbonate levels can increase the pH of acidic tumors without upsetting the pH of the blood and healthy tissues. Animal models of human breast cancer show that oral sodium bicarbonate does indeed make tumors more alkaline and inhibit metastasis.
Based on these studies, plus the fact that baking soda is safe and well tolerated, world renowned doctors such as Dr. Julian Whitaker have adopted successful cancer treatment protocols as part of an overall nutritional and immune support program for patients who are dealing with the disease.
The Whitaker protocol uses 12 g (2 rounded teaspoons) of baking soda mixed in 2 cups water, along with a low-cal sweetener of your choice. (It's quite salty tasting.)
Sip this mixture over the course of an hour or two and repeat for a total of three times a day. One man claims he has found a cure for cancer using baking soda and molasses and actually successfully treated his own disease by using baking soda.
When taken orally with water, especially water with high magnesium content, and when used transdermally in medicinal baths, sodium bicarbonate becomes a first-line medicinal for the treatment of cancer, and also kidney disease, diabetes, influenza and even the common cold.
It is also a powerful buffer against radiation exposure, so everyone should be up to speed on its use. Everybody's physiology is under heavy nuclear attack from strong radioactive winds that are circling the northern hemisphere.
Dr. Robert J. Gillies and his colleagues have already demonstrated that pre-treatment of mice with baking soda results in the alkalinization of the area around tumors. The same researchers reported that bicarbonate increases tumor pH and also inhibits spontaneous metastases in mice with breast cancer.
What is Baking Soda?
Baking soda is a white crystalline solid that appears as fine powder. It is also called cooking soda, bread soda and bicarbonate of soda. Its chemical name is sodium bicarbonate or sodium hydrogen carbonate.
Baking soda is different from washing soda (sodium carbonate) although they share the same slightly salty and alkaline taste.
This widely used soda is commonly dissolved in mineral water and used as a leavening agent in baking. It works as a leavening agent by neutralizing the acidic components of batter. The neutralization releases carbon dioxide and leads to the "raising" or expansion of baked foods.
Baking soda has also been used to soften vegetable and to tenderize meat.
As a household chemical, baking soda is used as a cleaning agent. It is included in toothpastes for similar reasons where it serves as an antiseptic, acid-neutralizer, whitening agent and plaque-removing agent as well as a cleaning agent.
Other common personal hygiene products in which baking soda can be found include deodorants and shampoos.
Baking Soda and pH Medicine
The pH of our tissues and body fluids is crucial and central because it affects and mirrors the state of our health or our inner cleanliness. The closer the pH is to 7.35-7.45, the higher our level of health and wellbeing.
Staying within this range dramatically increases our ability to resist acute illnesses like colds and flues as well as the onset of cancer and other diseases.
Keeping our pH within a healthy range also involves necessary lifestyle and dietary changes that will protect us over the long term while the use of sodium bicarbonate gives us a jump-start toward increased alkalinity.
The pH scale is like a thermometer showing increases and decreases in the acid and alkaline content of fluids. Deviations above or below a 7.35-7.45 pH range in the tightly controlled blood can signal potentially serious and dangerous symptoms or states of disease.
When the body can no longer effectively neutralize and eliminate the acids, it relocates them within the body's extra-cellular fluids and connective tissue cells directly compromising cellular integrity.
Conversely when the body becomes too alkaline from too much bicarbonate in the blood, metabolic alkalosis occurs, which can lead to severe consequences if not corrected quickly.
Jon Barron presents a way of looking at pH that opens up one of the major benefits of alkaline water:
Hydrogen ions tie up oxygen. That means that the more acid a liquid is, the less available the oxygen in it. Every cell in our body requires oxygen for life and to maintain optimum health.
Combine that with what we know about hydrogen ions and we see that the more acid the blood (the lower its pH), the less oxygen is available for use by the cells.
Without going into a discussion of the chemistry involved, just understand that it's the same mechanism involved when acid rain "kills" a lake. The fish literally suffocate to death because the acid in the lake "binds up" all of the available oxygen.
It's not that the oxygen has gone anywhere; it's just no longer available. Conversely, if you raise the pH of the lake (make it more alkaline), oxygen is now available and the lake comes back to life.
Incidentally, it's worth noting that cancer is related to an acid environment (lack of oxygen) — the higher the pH (the more oxygen present in the cells of the body), the harder it is for cancer to thrive.
Understanding this is important for two reasons: (1) it reveals one of the primary benefits of alkaline water — more "available" oxygen in the system and (2) it explains why alkaline water helps fight cancer.
Related: Here's How I Healed My Mother’s Skin Cancer Without Drugs
How Baking Soda Can Help "Cure" Cancer
Basically, malignant tumors represent masses of rapidly growing cells. The rapid rate of growth experienced by these cells means that cellular metabolism also proceeds at very high rates.
Therefore, cancer cells are using a lot more carbohydrates and sugars to generate energy in the form of ATP (adenosine triphosphate).
However, some of the compounds formed from the energy production include lactic acid and pyruvic acid. Under normal circumstances, these compounds are cleared and utilized as soon as they are produced. But cancer cells are experiencing metabolism at a much faster rate. Therefore, these organic acid accumulate in the immediate environment of the tumor.
The high level of extracellular acidity around the tumor is one of the chief driving force behind the metastasis of cancer tumors.
Basically, cancer cells need an acidic environment to grow and spread rapidly.
Some cancer experts, therefore, believe that by buffering the tumor microenvironment with an alkalizing compound, the pH of tumors can be raised enough to starve them and stop their growth and spread.
Curiously, this rather simple solution to cancer has been proven right.
What is even more remarkable is that there is no need to cook up some fancy synthetic drug to lower the acidity in the immediate environment of the tumor. A simple, commonly obtained compound like sodium bicarbonate will do.
Obviously, it is desirable to deliver the sodium bicarbonate as close to the tumor as possible since its pH-raising effect is needed in the microenvironment of the tumor.
Therefore, directly injecting sodium bicarbonate in the tumor site is considered a better solution than oral administration. However, oral sodium bicarbonate is just safer and can be readily used at home.
A 2009 study published in the journal, Cancer Research, is among the first to confirm that the alkalinizing effect of sodium bicarbonate can indeed stop cancer.
By injecting sodium bicarbonate into a group of mice, the authors of the study were able to determine how the growth and spread of cancer tumors were effected by raising the pH of the organ affected by the cancer.
The study results showed that baking soda indeed raised the pH and reduced spontaneous metastases in mice induced with breast cancer.
The researchers also determined that sodium bicarbonate works by raising the pH outside cells and not within cells. This is an important finding because it suggests that sodium bicarbonate does not interfere with cellular metabolism even as it makes the microenvironment unconducive for tumor growth.
Other findings from this study show that baking soda:
Reduced the involvement of the lymph node on the transport of cancer cells
Does not lower the levels of circulating tumor cells
Reduced the involvement of the liver and, therefore, the spread of tumor cells to other organs
Inhibit the colonization of other organs by circulating tumor cells
The Baking Soda Formula for Cancer
To make the baking soda natural cancer remedy at home, you need:
maple syrup,
molasses or
honey
to go along with the baking soda.
In Dr. Sircus' book, he documented how one patient used baking soda and blackstrap molasses to fight the prostate cancer that had metastasized to his bones. On the first day, the patient mixed 1 teaspoon of baking soda with 1 teaspoon of molasses in a cup of water.
He took this for another 3 days after which his saliva pH read 7.0 and his urine pH read 7.5.
Encouraged by these results, the patient took the solution 2 times on day 5 instead of once daily. And from day 6 - 10, he took 2 teaspoons each of baking soda and molasses twice daily.
By the 10th day, the patient's pH had risen to 8.5 and the only side effects experienced were headaches and night sweat (similar to cesium therapy).
The next day, the patient had a bone scan and too other medical tests. His results showed that his PSA (prostate-specific antigen, the protein used to determine the severity of prostate enlargement and prostate cancer) level was down from 22.3 at the point of diagnosis to 0.1.
Another baking soda formula recommends mixing 90 teaspoons of maple syrup with 30 teaspoons of baking soda.
To do this, the maple syrup must be heated to become less viscous. Then the baking syrup is added and stirred for 5 minutes until it is fully dissolved.
This preparation should provide about 10-day worth of the baking soda remedy. 5 - 7 teaspoons per day is the recommended dose for cancer patients.
Care should be taken when using the baking soda remedy to treat cancer. This is because sustaining a high pH level can itself cause metabolic alkalosis and electrolyte imbalance. These can result in edema and also affect the heart and blood pressure.
One does not have to be a doctor to practice pH medicine. Every practitioner of the healing arts and every mother and father needs to understand how to use sodium bicarbonate.
Bicarbonate deficiency is a real problem that deepens with age so it really does pay to understand and appreciate what baking soda is all about.
By Dave Mihalovic Enhanced and Edited By: Gage Gorman/ References: cancertutor; phkillscancer; drsircus; drleonardcoldwell; drwhitaker
Baking Soda and Lemon
Additional Method with Lemon and Baking Soda:
Tags Healing Cancer, Energy Is Everything EIE, EnergyIsEverythingEIE, Gage gorman, gage gorman, Gage Gorman, casey gervig, Casey Gervig, Healthy
2 Comments
Honey with Turmeric: Antibiotic
February 15, 2018 Gage Gorman and Casey Gervig
Turmeric has been used in Ayurvedic, Indian, and Chinese medicine for a long period of time. This spice has a unique flavor and a deep yellow color.
People have used it as a powerful natural remedy for a variety of health problems such as respiratory issues, liver diseases, skin problems, muscle sprains, cuts and wounds, gastric issues, digestion, various types of infections, inflammations, as well as malignant tumors.
This Is Why Turmeric Is so Important for Our Health and Well-Being
Curcumin, the active ingredient in turmeric, possesses anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and anti-microbial characteristics that make it the perfect natural solution to microbes, gastritis, peptic and gastric ulcers, and Helicobacter pylori.
Research points out that this vital substance has a positive impact on the DNA, cell survival, and on the inflammation molecules. It also has the capacity to lower osteoarthritis symptoms; this can be achieved by taking 200 mg of turmeric on a daily basis.
Turmerone is another ingredient in turmeric and it is known as a bioactive element that has the ability to better one’s brain function and treat Alzheimer’s by repairing the cells in the brain.
How to Make a Natural Antibiotic with Turmeric
Needed:
1 tbsp of turmeric spice
100 grams of organic honey
Preparation:
Put the ingredients in a glass jar and mix them well.
Use: If you have the flu, take half a spoon of the antibiotic every hour. The next day, take the same amount, but every 2 hours. On the third day, take the same dosage, three times per day. Before swallowing the mixture, make sure you melt it in your mouth. Feel free to add it to your daily cup of tea or hot water.
Additional Links:
TURMERIC AND HONEY MIXTURE – AN ELIXIR FOR LIFE
Turmeric Drink Recipe: Curcumin + Raw Organic Honey + Black Pepper
Tags Antibiotic, HoneyWithTurmeric, Gage Gorman, Gage gorman, gage gorman, casey gervig, Casey Gervig, Love Wins, Energy Is Everything EIE, EnergyIsEverythingEIE
Comment
Ginger
February 14, 2018 Gage Gorman and Casey Gervig
Ginger - The Benefits - The How To Use - And the How to Purchase
9 Things That Will Happen After Eating Ginger Daily
10 Ginger Essential Oil Benefits
1. Treats Upset Stomach and Supports Digestion
Ginger essential oil is one of the best natural remedies for colic, indigestion, diarrhea, spasms and stomach aches. Ginger oil is also effective as a nausea natural remedy and to treat vomiting.
A 2015 study published in the Journal of Basic and Clinical Physiology and Pharmacology evaluated the gastroprotective activity of ginger essential oil in rats. Ethanol was used to induce gastric ulcer in Wistar rats; the ginger essential oil treatment inhibited the ulcer by 85 percent. Examinations showed that ethanol-induced lesions, such as necrosis, erosion and hemorrhage of the stomach wall, were significantly reduced after the oral administration of the essential oil.
A scientific review published in Evidence-Based Complimentary and Alternative Medicine evaluated the efficacy of essential oils to reduce stress and nausea after surgical procedures. When ginger essential oil was inhaled, it was effective in reducing nausea and the requirement for nausea-reducing medications after surgery. Ginger essential oil also demonstrated analgesic activity for a limited time — it helped to relieve pain immediately after surgery.
2. Heals Infections
Ginger essential oil is an antiseptic; it kills infections that are caused by microorganisms and bacteria. This includes intestinal infections, bacterial dysentery and food poisoning.
Ginger oil is effective against malaria, for example, a mosquito-borne infectious disease. Malaria causes symptoms that typically include fever, fatigue, vomiting and headaches; in severe cases it can cause yellow skin, seizures, coma or death.
3. Aids Respiratory Problems
Ginger essential oil removes mucus from the throat and lungs, and it’s known to beat the common cold and flu, naturally treat cough, treat asthma, naturally remedy bronchitis and help with loss of breath. Because it’s an expectorant, ginger essential oil signals the body to increase the amount of secretions in the respiratory tract, which lubricates the irritated area.
Studies have shown that ginger essential oil serves as a natural remedy for asthma patients. Asthma is a respiratory illness that causes bronchial muscle spasms, swelling of lung lining and increased mucus production. This leads to the inability to breathe easily. This can be caused by pollution, obesity, infections, allergies, exercise, stress or hormonal imbalances. Because of ginger essential oil’s anti-inflammatory properties, it reduces swelling in the lungs and helps open airways.
4. Reduces Inflammation
Inflammation, in a healthy body, is the normal and effective response that facilitates healing; however, when the immune system overreaches and begins attacking healthy body tissues, we’re met with inflammation in healthy areas of the body, which causes bloating, swelling, pain and discomfort. Abnormal inflammation is at the root of most diseases, and this is the cause of leaky gut syndrome, arthritis and fibromyalgia symptoms, as well as celiac and irritable bowel disease. It’s important to consume anti-inflammatory foods and plants in order to cut back on this immune response.
A component of ginger essential oil, called Zingibain, is responsible for the oil’s anti-inflammatory properties. This important component provides pain relief and treats muscle aches, arthritis, migraines and works as a headache remedy. Ginger essential oil is believed to reduce the amount of prostaglandins in the body, which are compounds associated with pain.
A 2013 study published in the Indian Journal of Physiology and Pharmacology concluded that ginger essential oil possesses antioxidant activity as well as significant anti-inflammatory and antinociceptive property. After being treated with ginger essential oil for one month, enzyme levels increased in the blood of mice. The dose also scavenged free radicals and produced significant reduction in acute inflammation.
5. Strengthens Heart Health
Ginger essential oil has the power to reduce cholesterol levels and blood clotting. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, a few preliminary studies suggest that ginger may lower cholesterol and help prevent blood from clotting, which can help treat heart disease, where blood vessels can become blocked and lead to heart attack or stroke.
Along with reducing cholesterol levels, ginger oil also appears to improve lipid metabolism, helping decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease and diabetes.
6. High Levels of Antioxidants
Ginger root contains a very high level of total antioxidants. Antioxidants are substances that help prevent certain types of cell damage, especially those caused by oxidation; oxidative damage plays a major role in disease today and has been linked to health conditions like heart disease, cancer and dementia.
According to the book “Herbal Medicine, Biomolecular and Clinical Aspects,” ginger essential oil is able to decrease age-related oxidative stress markers and reduce oxidative damage. When treated with ginger extracts, there was a decrease in lipid peroxidation, which is when free radicals “steal” electrons from the lipids and cause damage. This mean ginger essential oil helps fight free radical damage.
Another study showed that when rats were fed ginger, they experienced less kidney damage due to oxidative stress induced by ischemia, which is when there is a restriction in the blood supply to tissues.
Recently, studies have focused on the anticancer activities of ginger essential oil; this has been associated with the antioxidant activities of [6]-gingerol and zerumbone, two components of ginger oil. According to research, these powerful components are able to suppress the oxidation of cancer cells, and they have been effective in suppressing CXCR4, a protein receptor, in a variety of cancers, including those of the pancreas, lung, kidney and skin.
Ginger essential oil has also been reported to inhibit tumor promotion in mouse skin, especially when gingerol is used in treatments, so it may work as a natural cancer treatment.
7. Natural Aphrodisiac
Ginger essential oil increases sexual desire; it addresses issues such as impotence and loss of libido. Impotence, also known as erectile dysfunction, is the inability for a man to sustain an erection long enough for normal, satisfying sexual intercourse; the causes may be physiological or psychological.
Because of its warming and stimulating properties, this ginger essential oil serves as an effective and natural aphrodisiac, as well as a natural remedy for impotence. It also helps to relieve stress and brings forth feelings of courage and self-awareness — eliminating self-doubt and fear.
8. Relieves Anxiety
When used as aromatherapy, ginger essential oil is able to relieve feelings of anxiety, anxiousness, depression and exhaustion. The warming quality of ginger oil serves as a sleep aid and stimulates feelings of courage and ease.
In Ayurvedic medicine, ginger oil is believed to treat emotional problems like fear, abandonment, and lack of self-confidence or motivation.
9. Alleviates Muscle and Menstrual Pain
Because of its pain-fighting components, like zingibain, ginger essential oil provides relief from menstrual cramps, headaches, backaches and soreness. Research suggests that consuming a drop or two of ginger essential oil daily is more effective in treating muscle and joint pain than the painkillers that are given by general practitioners — this is because of its ability to reduce inflammation and increase circulation.
In a study done at the University of Georgia, a daily ginger supplement reduced exercise-induced muscle pain in 74 participants by 25 percent. Ginger oil is also effective when taken by patients with pain associated with inflammation. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, when 261 people with osteoarthritis of the knee took a ginger extract twice daily, they experienced less pain and needed fewer pain-killing medications than those who received placebo.
10. Improves Liver Function
Because of ginger essential oil’s antioxidant potential and hepatoprotective activity, a study published in the Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry measured its effectiveness in treating alcoholic fatty liver disease, which is significantly associated with hepatic cirrhosis and liver cancer.
In the treatment, ginger essential oil was administered to mice with alcoholic fatty liver disease every day for four weeks. The results found that the treatment has hepatoprotective activity; after alcohol administration, the amounts of metabolites increased and then the levels recovered recovered in the treatment group.
Ginger Essential Oil History & Interesting Facts
The Chinese and Indians have used ginger tonics to treat ailments for over 4,700 years, and it was a priceless commodity during the Roman Empire trade around the coming of Christ because of its medicinal properties. Over time, ginger was spread across Asia, Africa, Europe and India because of the spice trading business.
In the 13th and 14th centuries, the value of a pound of ginger was equivalent to the cost of a sheep! By medieval times, it was being imported in preserved form to be used in sweets; in fact, Queen Elizabeth I of England is credited with the invention of the gingerbread man, which has become a well-known Christmas treat.
From 1585 on, Jamaican ginger was the first oriental spice to be grown in the New World and imported back to Europe. Today, India is the largest producer of ginger, followed by China, Nepal, Nigeria, Thailand and Indonesia.
How to Use Ginger Essential Oil
To improve blood circulation and heart health, rub one to two drops of ginger essential oil over the heart twice daily.
For muscle and joint pain, rub two to three drops of the oil on the needed area twice daily.
To boost mood and feelings of courage, add two to three drops to a diffuser or inhale twice daily.
For nausea, diffuse two to three drops of ginger oil or apply one to two drops over the stomach.
For low libido, diffuse two to three drops of ginger oil or apply one to two drops to the feet or lower abdomen.
To aid digestion and get rid of toxins, add two to three drops of ginger oil to warm bath water.
To relieve respiratory conditions, drink ginger tea or add one drop of ginger essential oil to green tea twice daily.
To treat vomiting, add one drop of ginger oil to a glass of water or cup of tea and drink slowly.
For cooking, start with a small dose (one or two drops) and add it to any meal that calls for ginger.
An Option for How and Where to Purchase
Casey is a doTerra consultant and does treatments with essential oils.
When considering where to purchase your essential oils consider contacting us for your purchase. We offer consultations as well for essential oils purchased through us.
Tags Ginger, Gage Gorman, Gage gorman, gage gorman, Casey Gervig, casey gervig, EnergyIsEverythingEIE, Energy Is Everything EIE, doTerra, Essential Oils
Comment
Lemons
February 13, 2018 Gage Gorman and Casey Gervig
The health benefits of lemon include treatment of indigestion, constipation, dental problems, throat infections, fever, internal bleeding, rheumatism, burns, obesity, respiratory disorders, cholera, and high blood pressure, while also benefiting your hair and skin. Known for its therapeutic property since generations, lemon helps strengthen your immune system, cleanse your stomach, and is considered a blood purifier.
Lemon juice, especially, has several health benefits associated with it. It is well known as a useful treatment for kidney stones, reducing strokes, and lowering body temperature. As a refreshing drink, lemonade helps you stay calm and cool.
Nutrition Facts Of Lemon
The health benefits of lemon are due to its many nourishing elements like vitamin C, vitamin B6, vitamin A, vitamin E, folate, niacin, thiamin, riboflavin, pantothenic acid, copper, calcium, iron, magnesium, potassium, zinc, phosphorus, and protein. It is a fruit that contains flavonoids, which are composites that contain antioxidant and cancer-fighting properties. It helps prevent diabetes, constipation, high blood pressure, fever, indigestion, as well as improve the skin, hair, and teeth. Studies conducted at the American Urological Association highlight the fact that lemonade or lemon juice can eliminate the occurrence of kidney stones by forming urinary citrate, which prevents the formation of crystals.
People use it to make lemonade by mixing lemon juice and water. Many people also use it as a washing agent, because of its ability to remove stains. The scent of lemons can also repel mosquitoes, while drinking lemon juice with olive oil helps get rid of gallstones. It is well known for its medicinal power and is used in many different ways. As per the results reported in a study by the Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases, lemon provides protection against inflammatory polyarthritis and arthritis too.
Health Benefits Of Lemon
Various health benefits of lemon are explained in detail below:
Treats Indigestion
Lemon juice helps cure problems related to indigestion and constipation. Add a few drops of this citrus fruit juice to your dish (take care, it does not go well with milk), and it will aid in digestion. It acts as a blood purifier and a cleansing agent. The recipe is lemon juice, cold water, soda, salts (common salt or rock salt), and sugar/honey for sweetness. You can also add some mint leaves or crushed fennel seeds for added flavor. Drink this whenever you have a heavy lunch or dinner.
Treats Fever
Lemon juice can treat a person who is suffering from a cold, flu or fever. It helps break fevers by increasing perspiration.
Dental Care
It is also frequently used in dental care. If the fresh lemon juice is applied on the area of a toothache, it can assist in getting rid of the pain. Massaging the juice on the gums can stop gum bleeding while also eliminating the bad odors that can come from various gum diseases and other conditions.
Additionally, it can be used in cleaning your teeth. Keep your eye out for a toothpaste containing lemon as one of the ingredients, or add a drop of its juice onto your normal toothpaste. Some people also rub their teeth with the outer layer (the inner side touching your teeth) after removing its juice. But be careful, it can be highly acidic, so if your mouth starts burning, rinse your gums and mouth quickly with water.
Hair Care
Lemon juice has proven itself useful in the treatment of hair care on a wide scale. Its juice, when applied to the scalp can treat problems like dandruff, hair loss and other problems related to the hair and scalp. If you apply this juice directly to the hair, it can give your hair a natural shine.
Skin Care
Lemon juice, being a natural antiseptic medicine, can also cure problems related to the skin. The juice can be applied to reduce the pain of sunburns and it helps to ease the pain from bee stings as well. It is also good for acne and eczema. It acts as an anti-aging remedy and can remove wrinkles and blackheads. Drinking its juice mixed with water and honey brings a healthy glow to the skin, and if you thoroughly search the cosmetic market, you will find some soaps containing this juice, but they aren’t too easy to find!
Cures Burns
Using lemon juice on the site of old burns can help fade the scars, and since it is a cooling agent, it reduces the burning sensation on the skin while you have an irritating burn.
Internal Bleeding
It has antiseptic and coagulant properties, so it can stop internal bleeding. You can apply lemon juice to a small cotton ball and place it inside your nose to stop nosebleeds.
Weight Loss
If a person drinks lemon juice mixed with lukewarm water and honey, it can help reduce body weight.
Soothes Respiratory Disorders
Lemon juice assists in relieving respiratory problems and breathing problems, such as its ability to soothe a person suffering from an asthma attack. Being a rich source of vitamin C, it helps in dealing with more long-term respiratory disorders as well.
Treats Cholera
Diseases like cholera and malaria can be treated with lemon juice because it acts as a blood purifier.
Relaxes Feet
Lemon is an aromatic and antiseptic agent and is useful for foot relaxation. Add some of its juice to warm water and dip your feet into the mixture for instant relief and muscle relaxation.
Treats Rheumatism
It is also a diuretic and can treat rheumatism and arthritis. It helps to flush out bacteria and toxins from the body.
Reduces Corns
Lemon juice can dissolve lumps on the skin, so it can be applied to the areas where the skin has hardened up, like the soles of feet and the palms of your hands. Drinking it with water can help patients reduce gallstones for the same reasons.
Throat Infections
Lemon is an excellent fruit that fights problems related to throat infections, due to its well-known antibacterial properties.
Controls Blood Pressure
Drinking lemon juice is helpful for people suffering from heart problems because it contains potassium. It controls high blood pressure, dizziness, and nausea as it provides a calming sensation to both, the mind and body. It is commonly employed to reduce mental stress and depression.
Lemon has proved to be nature’s boon to everyone who uses it. It provides many valuable solutions to health-related problems because it contains its own set of antiseptic and natural medications. It also aids in the treatment of malaria. A good practice is to eat anywhere from a quarter to a half of this little yet powerful citrus fruit per day to get maximum health benefits!
The Power of Frozen Lemons
Top 10 Lemon Essential Oil Uses
As you’d probably expect, there is a laundry list of lemon oil uses in addition to all of these medicinal effects. Here are some of my favorites:
Laundry – In case you leave your laundry sitting in the washer too long, just add a few drop of lemon EO and your clothes won’t get that nasty smell.
Teeth Whitener – Mix lemon essential oil, baking soda and coconut oil and rub on your teeth for 2 minutes and then rinse.
Clean Hands – Got greasy hands from working on your car or bike and regular soap isn’t doing the trick? No worries, just add a couple drops of lemon EO with your soap and get your clean hands back!
Natural Disinfectant – Want to steer away from alcohol and bleach to disinfect your countertops and clean your moldy shower? Add 40 drops lemon oil and 20 drops tea tree oil to a 16-oz spray bottle fill with pure water (and a little bit of white vinegar) for a traditional cleaning favorite.
Face-wash – Lemon essential oil uses for skin can improve your complexion and leave your skin soft and supple. Lemon oil benefits skin by deeply nourishing. You can make lemon oil with baking soda and honey for a natural acne free face wash.
Wood and Silver Polish – A lemon oil-soaked cloth will also help spruce up your tarnished silver and jewelry! Lemon oil for wood cleaning is also great.
Goo-Be-Gone – Un-stick the sticky goo your kids leave behind with stickers and gum with lemon oil.
Promotes Fat-Loss – Putting 2 drops of lemon oil in your water 3x daily can support metabolism and weight loss.
Improves Mood – Diffusing lemon essential oil in the air can lift mood and fight depression.
Immune Support – Lemon oil can support lymphatic drainage and help your overcome a cold fast, mix it with coconut oil and rub it on your neck.
Lemon Oil Research
At the time I wrote this article, there were 778 scientific studies referring to lemon essential oils. The secret to lemon’s success appears to be d-limonene, a powerful cancer fighting antioxidant.
Some reports even speculate that lemon oil contains up to 70% d-limonene! It’s no wonder that science is quickly catching up to 1,000 years of therapeutic use and is finally confirming many of the various Ayurvedic medical applications of lemon essential oil.
Another important thing to note, lemon essential oil comes from the cold-pressing the lemon peel and not the inner fruit. The peel is the most nutrient dense portion of the lemon in terms of fat soluble phytonutrients.
A study was published this past March that evaluated how lemon aromatherapy affects pregnant women during bouts of nausea and vomiting.
Astoundingly, of the 100 women that participated in the study, reports of symptoms dramatically decreased just after 2 days compared to the placebo group. After 4 days the essential oil group experienced an average of 33% decrease in nausea and vomiting!
Regarding lemon oil supplementation, researchers from the Central Food Technological Research Institute in India took a look at how geraniol (a powerful phytonutrient found in lemon) can help reverse diabetic neuropathy.
It was discovered that sciatic nerve damage were markedly reduced by lemon oil (geraniol) supplementation. Interesting, cellular function was also restored during the 8-week study, which suggests that regular lemon essential oil usage can help regulate our energy stores and play a role in preventing disease, cardiac dysfunction and premature aging.
If this weren’t enough, the researchers also observed that depleted dopamine levels were improved which helps people overcome addictions and improves mood to fight depression.
And let’s not forget about cleaning and food protection. In a study conducted by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, it was discovered that by adding lemon essential oils to food it protected the food against human pathogens like E. coli and Salmonella. Which is another reason why lemon essential oil is an ideally household cleaner.
Finally, lemon oil for skin health is also research and popular today. Lemon essential oil benefits for skin can include reducing acne, nourishing damaged skin and hydrating skin. Use lemon oil on the skin with baking soda or with raw honey as a natural homemade face facewash cleanser.
An Option for How and Where to Purchase
Casey is a doTerra consultant and does treatments with essential oils.
When considering where to purchase your essential oils consider contacting us for your purchase. We offer consultations as well for essential oils purchased through us.
Source References:
15 Amazing Benefits Of Lemon
17 Best Benefits Of Lemon Water
Tags Lemons, gage gorman, Gage gorman, Gage Gorman, Energy Is Everything EIE, EnergyIsEverythingEIE, Casey Gervig, casey gervig, Healthy
Comment
Thyme
February 13, 2018 Gage Gorman and Casey Gervig
Thyme and the benefits for your health.
How to Prepare Some Thyme for Yourself:
Tags Thyme, Healthy, Gage gorman, Gage Gorman, gage gorman, Casey Gervig, casey gervig, EnergyIsEverythingEIE, Energy Is Everything EIE, Love Wins
Comment
Garlic - Roasted and Raw
February 13, 2018 Gage Gorman and Casey Gervig
The Health Benefits of Garlic. Personally I like to have raw garlic cloves. We always have raw garlic in our home.
Tags garlic, gage gorman, casey gervig, EnergyIsEverythingEIE, Energy Is Everything EIE
Comment
Dry Fasting
February 4, 2018 Gage Gorman and Casey Gervig
This is a series of videos for which you can watch and learn about many potential benefits of dry fasting.
Advice Disclaimer. This information is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any questions about your medical condition.
— Legal
Spirituality & Food
Tags Dry Fasting, Gage Gorman, Casey Gervig, Energy Is Everything EIE, EnergyIsEverythingEIE, Ray Maor, Breatharian, Pranic Living, Healthy
Comment
Join Our Email List
Contact Us