What Are Cataracts? What Causes Cataracts? Surgery & Symptoms
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/eyesight center/eyesight a-z list/quizzes a-z list/what are cataracts?
What Are Cataracts?
Reviewed by John P. Cunha, DO, FACOEP, on April 11, 2016
Learn More
About Cataracts What Are Cataracts? FAQs
NEXT: Cataracts Slideshow
What is a cataract?
A cataract occurs when the lens of the eye clouds over, affecting vision in one or both eyes. Cataracts are a common problem of aging and more than half of all Americans will have a cataract by age 80. Cataracts can also occur in younger people, in their 40s or 50s, however, most cataracts that occur at this age are small and have little to no effect on a person's vision. It's not until a person is in his or her 60s that cataracts start to affect sight. More than 22 million Americans have cataracts.
Clouding of the lens in the eye that affects vision Cancer of the eye The medical term for double vision None of the above
What causes cataracts?
The lens of the eye helps us focus and see things clearly. It is made up of mostly water and protein. As we age, this protein may clump together and cloud the lens, forming a cataract. The cataract may grow over time, making vision more difficult.
The aging process is the most common cause of this protein buildup that leads to cataracts. Other causes of cataracts include diabetes, trauma to the eye, smoking, certain medications (corticosteroids and phenothiazines), high alcohol intake, unprotected ultraviolet (UV) exposure, nutritional deficiency, and eye surgery. In rare cases, cataracts may be present at birth or shortly thereafter.
Aging Diabetes Trauma All of the above
What are the symptoms of a cataract?
The main symptom of cataracts is cloudy or blurry vision. Cataracts do not cause pain. Initially, cataracts may only cause a small part of the lens to be cloudy which may not affect your vision. Cataracts glow gradually over time, so it can take a while to notice vision changes. As the cataracts increase in size, vision may become duller or blurrier.
Common symptoms of cataracts include: - Cloudy, hazy, dim, or blurry vision
- Colors appear faded, or less intense
- Sensitivity to glare from lights, particularly at night
- Seeing halos around lights
- Decreased night vision or difficulty seeing in dim light
- Greater need for reading light
- Double vision
- Frequent prescription changes for eyeglasses or contact lenses
Itching of the eye Eye discharge Cloudy or blurry vision Recurrent pinkeye
There are multiple types of cataracts.
Most cataracts develop as a result of the aging process and are considered primary cataracts. Other types of cataracts include:
- Secondary cataract – Development is related to a secondary cause, such as surgery, other eye problems (for example, glaucoma), diabetes, or steroid use
- Traumatic cataract – These develop after an injury to the eye
- Congenital cataract – These are present at birth or appear shortly thereafter
- Radiation cataract – Develops after exposure to some types of radiation
Cataracts can be classified by how they develop, as well as their location.
- Nuclear cataract – located in the center of the lens
- Cortical cataract – affects the layer of the lens surrounding the nucleus
- Posterior capsular cataract – located in the back outer layer of the lens
True False
Prolonged exposure to sunlight is a risk factor for cataracts.
Prolonged exposure to the ultraviolet (UV) rays of sunlight is a risk factor for cataracts. Long-term exposure to this type of radiation can cause changes in the lens that can lead to development of cataracts. The good news is that wearing sunglasses regularly can help protect your eyes from the damage of UV rays and may help prevent cataracts from developing or getting worse.
True False
Surgery is the only treatment to cure cataracts.
There are several ways to manage cataract symptoms in the early stages, however; if a cataract starts to interfere with vision significantly, surgery is the only way to cure it.
In the early stages, when there are few symptoms, cataracts can often be managed with new prescriptions for eyeglasses or contact lenses, using brighter lighting, wearing anti-glare sunglasses, and using magnifying lenses. Cataracts develop slowly and gradually, so even if you are diagnosed with one, it may be years before surgery is needed, if ever.
Once cataracts reach a stage where they interfere with daily activities such as driving or reading, surgery may be recommended. In cataract surgery, the cloudy lens is removed and replaced with an artificial lens. Cataract removal is a common and safe procedure, and about 90% of people who have it report better vision afterwards.
In some cases cataracts are removed even when they do not cause vision problems, such as when a patient also has age-related macular degeneration or diabetic retinopathy.
True False
Cataracts can lead to blindness.
If not treated, cataracts can lead to blindness. Cataract-related blindness is less prevalent in developed countries, but the World Health Organization estimates 51% of world blindness is due to cataracts, making it the leading cause of blindness worldwide.
True False
Cataracts cannot be prevented.
There is no way to prevent age-related cataracts from developing. However, there steps you can take to help delay or prevent the development of other types of cataracts.
- Diabetics should manage blood sugar levels
- Protect eyes with sunglasses when in sunlight
- Quit smoking
- Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables for antioxidants
- Limit alcohol consumption
- Have your eyes examined regularly to spot problems in early stages
True False
Sources:
Images provided by:
1. iStockPhoto
2. Getty Images
3. Getty Images
4. Getty Images
5. Getty Images
6. Bigstock
7. Getty Images
8.Getty Images
Sources:
National Eye Institute. Cataracts Defined.
<https://nei.nih.gov/health/cataract/cataract_facts>
American Optometric Association. Cataracts.
<http://www.aoa.org>
University of Maryland Medical Center. Cataracts.
<http://umm.edu/health/medical/reports/articles/cataracts>
World Health Organization. Visual Impairment and Blindness.
<http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs282/en/>
Preventblindness.org. Cataract.
<http://www.preventblindness.org/cataract>
Johns Hopkins Medicine. Wilmer Eye Institute. Cataracts FAQ.
<http://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/wilmer/conditions/cataracts_faq.html>
This tool does not provide medical advice.See additional information:
THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the MedicineNet Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911.
© 1996-2019 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved.
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth