10 Tell Tale Marijuana Addiction Symptoms
Marijuana Rehab
Call 1 (888) 460-6556
any time to discuss treatment options
Get Help Now
Seeking Treatment For:*
Your First Name:*
First
Your Last Name:*
Your Email Address:
Your Phone Number:
Use This Format Only: (###) ###-####
Contact Me By:
Email
Phone
Receive Palm Partners email updates
Yes
No
Email
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Home
About Marijuana
Marijuana Addiction
Marijuana Rehab
Advice
Feeling anxious or depressed without marijuana is a symptom of dependence.
10 Tell Tale Marijuana Addiction Symptoms
Addiction to marijuana often goes undetected for a myriad of different reasons. For some, the idea that marijuana is even addictive is hard to believe. For others, the tell tale marijuana addiction symptoms that are listed below are merely an oversight due to the addiction itself. Regardless of why marijuana addiction tends to go undetected or underplayed, the reality is that this is a very real condition that affects millions of marijuana smokers.
1. Tolerance
Smoking marijuana regularly will quickly lead to an increase in tolerance which requires the use of more marijuana in order to produce the same euphoric effects. Tolerance is one of the first marijuana addiction symptoms to present itself to the user.
2. Anxiety
According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, marijuana use is linked to a number of mental health conditions including anxiety and depression as well as psychosis and lack of motivation.
3. Drug-Seeking Behavior
People who become addicted to marijuana will spend time seeking the drug usually before they run out or as soon as they run out. Most people who are addicted to marijuana will spend unreasonable amounts of time in search of or using the drug.
4. Upset Stomach
One of the most common signs of marijuana addiction is not necessarily evident when the drug is being used but when the drug use stops—upset stomach, diarrhea, abdominal cramping and other withdrawal symptoms are all likely when the user stops smoking marijuana on a regular basis.
5. Lack of Motivation
The National Institute on Drug Abuse states that marijuana is often responsible for causing a lack of motivation in users who regularly abuse the drug. Not all people who smoke pot will suffer from a lack of motivation but the majority will at least shift their motivation ties in the direction more towards drug use.
6. Anger or Hostility
When there isn’t any marijuana to smoke, anger and hostility may arise. This usually leads to the drug-seeking behavior listed above but may also lead to troubles in relationships. Marijuana addiction is difficult to cope with, especially when there is an individual in a relationship that is not addicted.
7. Changes in Eating Habits
Smoking marijuana will usually increase the appetite of the user, but when there is no marijuana to smoke the appetite is usually decreased or non-existent. Changes in eating habits, such as a lack of desire to eat when withdrawing are all common symptoms of marijuana addiction.
8. Changes in Sleep Habits
Insomnia is common in those who attempt to quit smoking pot abruptly. Those who smoke regularly may find that they cannot go to sleep or that they cannot stay asleep when they don’t have marijuana to smoke—these are symptoms of withdrawal that come as a result of marijuana addiction.
9. Depression
Marijuana use has been linked to a number of mental health conditions including depression. Regular use of marijuana and the abrupt decision to quit smoking pot may lead to a depressed state that lingers for many weeks or months after.
10. Changes in Friendships
Marijuana addiction often leads to major changes in friendships as the user adjusts their schedule to spend time with others who abuse drugs while avoiding time with those who do not use drugs.
Marijuana Rehab
10 Tell Tale Marijuana Addiction Symptoms
5 Alarming Marijuana Health Effects
5 Signs You Need Marijuana Addiction Help
Could My Son Have Marijuana Addiction?
Do I Have a Marijuana Dependence?
Effects of Marijuana on the Brain
Is My Loved One Addicted to Marijuana?
Is Weed Addicting?
Marijuana Addiction Eating Effects
Marijuana Addiction Long Term Effects
Marijuana Addiction Social Effects
Marijuana Psychological Effects
Marijuana Withdrawal
Does Weed Withdrawal Exist?
Marijuana Withdrawal Timeline
Symptoms of Marijuana Withdrawal
What Does Withdrawal from Marijuana Feel Like?
Who Experiences Withdrawal from Marijuana?
Mental Effects of Marijuana Addiction
Signs and Symptoms of Marijuana Addiction
What are the Effects of Marijuana Addiction
Who Needs Help for Marijuana Addiction?
MARIJUANAREHAB.COM. © 2017 All Rights Reserved.
Home
About Marijuana
Marijuana Addiction
Marijuana Rehab
Advice
Privacy Policy
Call 1 (888) 460-6556 anytime to speak with an addiction specialist.