Our Blog - Dentist - Kingwood TX | Derek W. Scott DDS & Associates
Kingwood Office
1520 Green Oak Place, Suite C
Kingwood, TX 77339
(281) 358-3125
Menu
Home
About Us
Meet Dr. Derek Scott
Meet the Team
Our Blog
For New Patients
Office Visits
Financial Information
Dental FAQs
Testimonials
Office Tour
Implant Services
Dental Implants
Implant Services
Implant-Supported Dentures
Mini Implants
Dental Services
Emergency Dental Care
Common Procedures
Preventive Care
Gum Disease
Cosmetic Dentistry
Periodontal Treatments
Sedation Dentistry
Digital X-rays
Laser Dentistry
Oral Cancer Screening
TMJ / TMD
TMJ-TMD
Teeth Whitening
Teeth Whitening
Boost In-Office Teeth Whitening
Opalescence GO
Contact Us
Kingwood Office Location
Appointment Request
Post-Appointment Survey
Search Blog:
Search
Tour
our office
Meet
Our Doctor
Testimonials
Tour
our office
Meet
Our Doctor
Testimonials
Our Blog
Is periodontal disease genetic?
March 20th, 2019
It can be. There is more and more evidence to suggest people may be genetically susceptible to periodontal (gum) disease. According to a study published in the Journal of Clinical Periodontology, as much as 30 percent of the U.S. population may be genetically vulnerable to gum disease.
Research has suggested that bacteria causing periodontal disease are passed via saliva. This means that when family members come into contact with each other’s saliva by activities such as sharing drinks, they put themselves at risk for contracting periodontal disease. Based on this research, experts at the American Academy of Periodontology strongly recommend that all family members receive a periodontal disease screening if one of their family members has gum disease.
Despite persistent oral care habits such as brushing twice daily, flossing, and going to the dentist twice a year, these people may be more likely to develop periodontal disease at some point in their lifetime. Luckily, Dr. Derek Scott and our team can identify these patients by having them undergo a genetic test that analyzes genes and can help us identify an person’s risk for periodontal disease, as well as getting them into early intervention treatment.
Periodontal disease prevention starts with a visit to our Kingwood, TX office. During your appointment, Dr. Derek Scott and our professional team can identify whether you have gum disease or if you are at risk for developing gum disease. Together we can take the necessary steps to treat the disease or prevent it entirely.
To learn more about preventing gum disease, or to schedule your next visit at Derek W. Scott, DDS & Associates, please give us a call today!
Tags:
Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments
St. Patrick's Day
March 13th, 2019
On March 17, everyone has a little Irish in them. St. Patrick’s Day is a joyous celebration of Irish heritage. The holiday originated as a commemoration of Saint Patrick, who brought Christianity to Ireland. The saint arrived in Ireland in 432 and earned the reputation of a champion of Irish Christianity. March 17th, the day of St. Patrick’s death, has been commemorated by the Irish for over 1,000 years. St. Patrick’s Day is still observed as a religious feast day by several Christian denominations, but it is better known in the public imagination as a rich celebration of Irish culture.
St. Patrick’s Day has been an official public holiday in Ireland since 1903. Each year, the Irish celebrate with a several-day festival that includes theater performances, music, fireworks, and festive parades. The celebration is also a public holiday in Northern Ireland, Montserrat, and Newfoundland and Labrador. In other parts of the world with heavy Irish populations, it is an unofficial celebration of Irish heritage. Parts of Great Britain, Canada, Argentina, South Korea, Switzerland, New Zealand, the United States, and Australia commemorate the holiday each year. Typical celebrations in these countries include drinking green beer, wearing green, eating traditional Irish foods, parades, and shamrock decorations.
Many people, Irish and non-Irish alike, take part in the “wearing of the green” on St. Patrick’s Day. In fact, the color originally associated with Saint Patrick was blue. His use of shamrocks to explain the Holy Trinity to the Irish made the green clover emblematic of the holiday, leading to the traditional green attire worn by thousands on St. Patrick’s Day. Other little-known facts about St. Patrick’s Day include the following:
Each year, the United States and Ireland face off in a rugby competition called the “St. Patrick’s Day Test.”
Montreal celebrates the holiday with an annual parade, which has been held each year since 1824. The Montreal city flag even features a shamrock in its corner, as a nod to its Irish heritage.
The Guinness World Records named St. Patrick’s Day the “Friendliest Day of the Year.”
Along with Valentine’s Day, St. Patrick’s Day is one of the most widely celebrated saint’s day in the world.
No matter your cultural heritage, St. Patrick’s Day is a great time to let loose and celebrate your inner Irish-ness! Don your greenest attire and exclaim “Erin go Bragh!” (Ireland forever!) to everyone you meet. From Dr. Derek Scott - have a great St. Paddy’s day!
Tags:
Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments
March is National Nutrition Month!
March 6th, 2019
While you don’t have to wait to start eating right, March is the month the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics asks everyone to pay special attention to what goes into our bodies. The Academy has designated the month of March for focusing the public’s awareness on what they eat.
What Not to Eat
The academy points out that the foods you eat have a direct effect on the health of your teeth and specifically on tooth decay. Bacteria rely on carbohydrates to thrive. That is why Dr. Derek Scott and our team at Derek W. Scott, DDS & Associates tell our patients to cut back on both candy and sweets. They consist of simple sugars that feed the bacteria in your mouth and enhance tooth decay.
It’s the hidden sugars that will cost you, though. Get in the habit of reading labels on food and looking for products with added sugar. This includes ingredients that end with the suffix “ose.” When it comes to nutrition, these foods offer little value beyond satisfying that sweet tooth.
What You Should Eat
Turn to foods that not only taste good but are good for your teeth too. Dairy products, for example, provide the body with nutritional items that support tooth enamel. Foods high in protein feature phosphorus, a nutrient critical to oral health.
You can’t really go wrong by adding color to your diet, either. Fruits and vegetables make for a colorful plate and a healthy meal. Use some caution with acidic fruits like oranges or even tomatoes, because the acid can erode tooth enamel. It is better to include these foods in a meal instead of eating them by themselves.
Remember, good nutrition is something you should worry about all year long, not just when celebrating National Nutrition Month. March just serves as a fun reminder that eating right is a proactive step in managing your dental health.
We encourage you to give us a call at our Kingwood, TX office to learn more!
Tags:
Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments
Chewing Gum: Fact and Fiction
February 27th, 2019
Remember all the things your parents would tell you when you were growing up to scare you away from doing something? Like how lying might make your nose grow, misbehaving meant you wouldn’t get money from the tooth fairy, and swallowed chewing gum would build up in your stomach and stay there for years?
Maybe that last one stayed with you well beyond your teens, and occurred to you every time you accidentally (or purposely) swallowed a piece of gum. We don’t blame you. It’s a scary thought.
But is it true?
We hate to take the fun out of parental discipline, but swallowing a piece of chewing gum is pretty much like swallowing any other piece of food. It will move right through your digestive system with no danger of getting stuck for months, let alone seven years.
This doesn’t mean you should start swallowing all your gum from now on, but if it happens accidentally now and then, there’s no need to panic.
Another common gum myth is that sugar-free gum can help you lose weight. Although it is preferable to choose sugar-free gum over the extra-sweet variety, no studies have show that sugar-free gum will help you lose weight.
If you pop a piece of gum in your mouth after dinner to avoid dessert, it could help you avoid eating a few extra calories every day. But the consumption of sugar-free gum without any other effort will not help you shed pounds.
If you really enjoy chewing gum, we strongly encourage you to select sugarless gum, because it lowers your risk for cavities. Many brands of sugarless gum contain xylitol, a natural sweetener that can, in fact, help fight bacteria that cause cavities and rinse away plaque.
So if you can’t kick the gum habit altogether, sugar-free is definitely the way to go!
If you have any questions about chewing gum, feel free to contact Dr. Derek Scott at our Kingwood, TX office.
Tags:
Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments
Older Entries Newer Entries
Back to Top
Shortcuts
Home
About Us
For New Patients
Dental Services
Contact Us
Site Map
Find Us
Kingwood Office
Website Powered by Sesame 24-7™