Cellular phone usage do not cause cancer ~ Engineering projects ideas for final year students & paper presentations collection blog.
Engineering projects ideas for final year students & paper presentations collection blog.
All the latest ECE projects, EEE, Mechanical projects, CSE, IT projects, computer projects are updated here for indian students.
More than 3000 engineers find our updates useful. You can get them at your mail box!
Search your paper presentation and project titles:
Engineering
Home page
Engineering Projects
Engineering e-books
Paper presentations
Engineering jobs
Tech-news
Placement guide
Special post
Department/Area of interest: ( To list the projects / paper presentations)
Mechanical Scada technology Communication Computer science Alternative energy
Electrical Robotics Biometrics Artificial intelligence Electronics
Cellular phone usage do not cause cancer
It was a time when we were savoring the accomplishment of getting a smart phone.
The hype created by them was so enormous that everybody wanted to get their hands on them. Parents were badgered by their kids, promises, of high grades in future and repaying their parents once they started earning, were made. Some swore they would use them sorely for “educational purposes”.
That was the scenario when a report was published about cell phones causing cancer.
It sent shock waves all over the world. Though we had people preaching about the evil side of cell phones for years, we were having too much fun to acknowledge them before.
But after this report people resigned to accepting that they were indeed paving way for unwanted trouble if we may put it lightly. Alarming reports said that children were more vulnerable to diseases caused by cell phones than adults.
A European study published in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute focused on the effects of cellphones on children and adolescents, because it was suggested they “might be more vulnerable to possible health effects from mobile phone exposure than adults,” according to the study abstract.
That study involved 1,000 participants, comparing cellphone usage of a group diagnosed with brain tumors against a control group of cellphone-using individuals who were in good health.
The lead author of the study, “A large and immediate risk of cellphones causing brain tumors in children can be excluded.” The conclusion of the study: “The absence of an exposure-response relationship either in terms of the amount of mobile phone use or by localization of the brain tumor argues against a causal association.”
This is the latest in a long line of studies aimed at finding the truth about whether cellphones cause cancer or not. Here are the three most recent studies:
• The World Health Organization’s International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) announced the results of its cellphones/cancer study in May of this year, calling cellphones “possibly carcinogenic to humans.”
• A study published in February found that cellphone use caused increased activity in certain parts of the brain, but couldn’t determine if those effects were causing any harm, or even if they were beneficial.
• Last year, a less-credible study that was partially funded by the wireless industry found no evidence of increased risk of brain tumors associated with mobile phones.
Though the recent report may cause people to sigh in relief, prolonged physical contact with cell phones should not be encouraged. It is always advisable to control the increasing dependency on gadgets which may be a source of unrest, both physically and mentally.
Newer Post Older Post Home
Intense Debate Comments
Request on any help you want in your project and ppts
Labels
tech-news
paper presentations
ebooks
engineering projects
Computer science engineering
Communication engineering
Electrical engineering
Electronics engineering
Mechanical engineering
Alternative energy
engineering software
placement
Automobile engineering
Biometrics
Biotechnology
Robotics
Embedded Systems
tech articles
Aeronautical
HE Special
artificial intelligence
Engineering jobs
image processing
tutorials
chemical engineering
scada technology
careers
civil engineering
exams
This blogs is an effort to club the scattered information about engineering available in the web.
While every effort is made to ensure the accuracy of the information on this site, no liability is accepted for any consequences of using it.
Most of the material and information are taken from other blogs and site with the help of search engines.
If any posts here are hitting the copyrights of any publishers, kindly mail the details to yuva.2712@gmail.com. it will to removed immediately.
Share