Use Baking Soda For Stop Cancer Growth · Energy Healthy Food
×
Home
Healthy Tips
Healthy Food
Healthy Drinks
Beauty
Diet & Weight Loss
Fitness
General
Use Baking Soda For Stop Cancer Growth
Home
Healthy Tips
Healthy Food
Healthy Drinks
Beauty
Diet & Weight Loss
Fitness
General
General
Use Baking Soda For Stop Cancer Growth
September 7, 2017 by admin
0
Share this post:
Pinterest
Sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3), commonly known as baking soda, is a natural substance used for a variety of household baking and cleaning purposes. But did you know that there are baking soda uses for helping the body to prevent cancer, as well as it being a tool cancer patients can use to identify and stabilize cancer growth?
Baking Soda Suppresses Cancer Growth Rate
Energy is produced by cancer cells through a process called anaerobic glycolysis which relies on glucose as the primary fuel source. Acidic metabolites such as lactic acid are byproducts of this metabolic pathway. As a result of this biochemical event, studies have found that the extracellular pH in cancerous regions is generally lower than normal tissue.
A highly acidic environment stimulates invasive tumor growth in both primary and metastatic cancer types. Consumption of sodium bicarbonate has been shown to increase the pH of tumors and slow the formation of spontaneous metastases in metastatic breast cancer mouse models. Baking soda was also found to decrease the rate of lymph node involvement and reduce the occurrence that the cancer would spread to the liver.
Researchers in this field of study reasonably assume that increasing systemic levels of pH using buffers such as sodium bicarbonate will lower peritumoral and intratumoral acidosis. Further, the reduction of tumor acid levels exhibited in mouse models has been found to reduce tumor growth and metastasis without adversely altering blood or unaffected tissue pH concentrations.
The use of baking soda is also a likely route to enhancing the effects of conventional chemotherapy treatment. Tumor acidosis promotes chemoresistance with specific chemotherapy drugs such as paclitaxel and doxorubicin. Utilizing baking soda to improve pH levels is a potential benefit for those seeking standard cancer treatment.
Research clearly indicates that baking soda along with the use of a variety of other natural healing strategies can be used to naturally defend against cancer as well as strengthen immune coordination. However, cancer is a highly complex disease − no one should consider a solo therapy to be effective at curing cancer as no treatment can accomplish such a task.
How Do You Use Baking Soda in Your Body?
If the body is in an acidic state baking soda is beneficial to increasing pH concentrations. Contrary to popular opinion, baking soda (unlike baking powder), does not contain aluminum. Purchasing “aluminum-free” baking soda is unnecessary, but purchasing “aluminum-free” baking powder for baking needs should be highly considered.
However, commercial baking soda products including the Arm & Hammer brand utilize a chemical process that converts trona ore into soda ash. Soda ash reacts with carbon dioxide to produce baking soda. Although not necessarily a hazard, this product does result from a chemical process. These companies source their sodium bicarbonate directly from the ground in its natural environment.
The Baking Soda Protocol
Only consume this drink when you have tested your pH throughout the day and your results are acidic. As a reminder, do not drink this beverage 30 minutes before or after a meal to avoid lowering stomach acid secretions and inhibiting proper digestion. This beverage will aid in neutralizing pH, buffer stomach acid, and lower acidosis. Drink the following mixture throughout the day except before and after meals until your pH levels are stabilized between 7.0 and 8.0.
Ingredients:
Tall glass
1 tsp baking soda
3 tbs fresh lemon juice
8 oz. purified water
Directions:
Mix baking soda with fresh lemon juice or organic apple cider vinegar. The combination will result in a foam or fizz. This is normal.
Once all bubbling has stopped, add water to the mixture and drink all at once.
Share this post:
Pinterest
admin
0
Related News
Just One Teaspoon Can Empty Over 15 Pounds Of Waste From Your Colon
One-Week Ketogenic Diet Meal Plan to Fight Obesity, Diabetes, Epilepsy, Heart Disease, Alzheimer’s, Cancer, and More!
NASA Concerned By 75,000-Mile-Wide Hole Appearing On The Sun
Drink This Potion Every Morning On An Empty Stomach And Say Goodbye To Your Obesity!
Finally! FDA Admits That Chicken Meat Contains Cancer-Causing Arsenic
Boil The Watermelon Seeds and Then Take It, Its Effects Will Leave You With Open Mouth
Most Shared
IMPRESSIVE: THIS IS HOW YOU CAN REMOVE BODY HAIR PERMANENTLY (NO NEED TO WAX OR SHAVE)
4.6K Shares
What Aloe Vera Does To Your Body: Why Egyptians Called It The Plant Of Immortality?
3.6K Shares
DO THIS FOR 15 MINUTES BEFORE GOING TO BED, IT CAN CHANGE YOUR SKIN COMPLEXION OVERNIGHT
2.7K Shares
8 WAYS TO USE VITAMIN E FOR WRINKLES
2.2K Shares
Repair Kidneys Naturally And With 1 Ingredient!
164 Shares
7 Ways to Use Lemon That Every Woman Should Know
67 Shares
What She Spreads On Her Skin, Everyone Has at Home – But Nobody Uses It!
56 Shares
If You Can’t Lose Weight, Try These 34 Tricks Immediately To Reset Your Fat-Burning Hormones
52 Shares
63-Year-Old Model Stuns the World, Shares Her Secrets to Graceful Aging
36 Shares
Glow Serum With Vitamin E Capsule That Works Like Magic On Your Skin
18 Shares
16 Warning Signs That Your Liver is overloaded with Toxins Which Are Making You Fat!
15 Shares
10 SIMPLE TRICKS TO BURN FAT NATURALLY (AND WITHOUT EXERCISE!)
12 Shares
The Tea That Cures Strep Throat, Flu And Sinus Infections
11 Shares
If You Want to Protect You Kidneys Don’t do This!
10 Shares
CANCER CELLS DIE IN 42 DAYS: THIS FAMOUS AUSTRIAN’S JUICE CURED OVER 45,000 PEOPLE FROM CANCER AND OTHER INCURABLE DISEASES! (RECIPE)
9 Shares