Clear Vision Family Center
Home
About Us
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Clear Vision Family Center
Clear Vision Family Center
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
Eye Care Advice You Need To Read
Are you educated enough about eye health to keep them healthy as you age? When was your last eye appointment? If it has been ages since you’ve had an appointment, you need to read the tips below.
Wear sunglasses for eye protection. UV protection is essential for proper eye care. The sun can cause eye damage, especially to those delicate areas surrounding your eyes. Avoid taking chances when it comes to the eyes.
Sunglasses are important to wear year-round, even in the winter. The sun’s rays are always out and can harm your eyes at any time. Even if there isn’t any snow, the sun radiates enough light to damage your eyes.
Determine if you have any family history of eye problems, because early diagnosis will work in your favor. Any hereditary condition can be anticipated to be identified more easily by your eye doctor. If something is found, early treatment can help keep things from progressing.
Not all sunglasses are equal and some may do little to protect your eyes. Ensure they are able to block nearly 100 percent of UVB and UVA rays. While you might look at sunglasses with just your fashion sense, you must understand that cheap sunglasses are going to negatively affect your vision.
Some foods can prevent eye problems. Studies show that eating foods rich in Vitamins E and C, omega-3 fats and zinc often prevents macular degeneration and cataracts, along with other eye maladies. Tuna, tomatoes and salmon contain the nutrients you need.
Know your family’s eye health history. Some conditions are hereditary; knowing what your risk is can help with treatment. Talking with the elders in your family can give you insight into the eye issues that you may face as you get older.
Poor eye health can be a result of a variety of different situations. Knowing all that goes into good eye care is an important topic. Now that you’ve read this article, you know how to take care of your eyes.
April 1st, 2019 | Tags: Cataract Evaluation West Los Angeles, Cataract Surgeon West Los Angeles, Cataract Surgery West Los Angeles, Corneal Surgeon West Los Angeles, Corneal Surgery West Los Angeles, Glaucoma Evaluation West Los Angeles, Intraocular Lens Implant West Los Angeles, Laser Eye Surgery West Los Angeles, Laser Vision Correction West Los Angeles, Ophthalmologists West Los Angeles, Ophthalmology West Los Angeles | Category: Eye Care | | Posted by admin
Looking For Eye Care Advice? Read This Article!
Good eyesight is required to see the beauty in this world. Many times people take for granted this special gift until it becomes too late and they lose their eyesight. Keep your eyes healthy by using the following tips.
Find out if your family has any history with eye problems, because diagnosing conditions early will help treat them more effectively. You can have your optometrist test for hereditary conditions that you find out about. The sooner your doctor learns of it, the faster they can treat it, making a huge difference.
If you are a smoker, stop now. Although you probably are aware of the lung damage you are causing, your poor eyes are being affected too. Smokers are highly prone to eye damage. When you quit smoking, you drastically reduce your chances of developing certain eye diseases.
You must be seeing your eye doctor for regular checkups. If your sight is worsening, get checked out as soon as you can. This is why you need to get checkups frequently. A lot of these issues can be treated early on.
Wear shades in the sun. Wearing the right sunglasses will protect your eyes from harmful UV rays. UV exposure can cause cataracts and/or macular degeneration. Pick sunglasses that block UVB and UVA rays. Wraparound sunglasses are especially protective.
If you blink more than normal, it might be an eye problem. If your eyes are not dry, it might be a tic that is the result of stress. If your excessive blinking is caused by stress, find ways to relax. If it is not due to stress, go see an ophthalmologist.
Most people just take it for granted that their eyes are fine. Having read this piece, you can see how important good vision and care are. Think about how bad your life would be without your eyesight. This is a good motivation for putting the above tips to use.
March 1st, 2019 | Tags: Cataract Evaluation West Los Angeles, Cataract Surgeon West Los Angeles, Cataract Surgery West Los Angeles, Corneal Surgeon West Los Angeles, Corneal Surgery West Los Angeles, Glaucoma Evaluation West Los Angeles, Intraocular Lens Implant West Los Angeles, Laser Eye Surgery West Los Angeles, Laser Vision Correction West Los Angeles, Ophthalmologists West Los Angeles, Ophthalmology West Los Angeles | Category: Eye Care | | Posted by admin
The Top Information Out There About Eye Care
Is your vision excellent? Do you know how to take proper care of your eyes? If you do not, you really cannot expect to always enjoy good vision. Take good care of your eyes if you want eyes that work well for you. Read on to learn how to take good care of your eyes for a lifetime.
For best results, see a highly qualified eye doctor for serious issues with your eyes to get the best care. To find the best local practitioners, you can ask for personal recommendations from friends and family or look online for patient feedback on specific doctors. A little research can help you find the doctor that is right for you.
Wear sunglasses to keep your eyes protected. Buy a quality pair rather than a cheap pair that doesn’t provide enough UV protection. The sun can damage your eyes and the skin around them. Never take needless risks with your ability to see.
Some sunglasses aren’t really protecting your eyes. Make sure that they block all UVA rays as well as all UVB rays. Even if your glasses are primarily a statement of fashion, know that cheap sunglasses can actually impact your vision negatively.
Whether you think it is true or not, the foods you eat can impact eye problems. Eating foods that contain zinc, Vitamins E and C and omega-3 fatty acids can prevent several eye conditions including macular degeneration and cataracts. Foods like beans, nuts, salmon, tuna and leafy, green vegetables will offer these nutrients.
Should you still be a smoker, quit now. You probably know about the damage it does to your lungs, but you may not know your eyes are affected, too. Smokers are more likely to develop eye disease, particularly those who smoke for many years. If you quit, then your risk is reduced for developing cataracts or damage to the optic nerves.
Eyes may weaken regardless of what vision you currently have. Though, with the right information, you can maintain good eye health for many years. Follow this advice daily to take the best of care of your eyes.
February 1st, 2019 | Tags: Cataract Evaluation West Los Angeles, Cataract Surgeon West Los Angeles, Cataract Surgery West Los Angeles, Corneal Surgeon West Los Angeles, Corneal Surgery West Los Angeles, Eye Doctors West Los Angeles, Glaucoma Evaluation West Los Angeles, Intraocular Lens Implant West Los Angeles, Laser Eye Surgery West Los Angeles, Laser Vision Correction West Los Angeles, Ophthalmologists West Los Angeles, Ophthalmology West Los Angeles | Category: Eye Care | | Posted by admin
Take This Advice To Become An Expert On Eye Care
Make sure to always keep your eyes healthy. It is difficult to have eye problems, so you should use this advice. Use these tips in your daily life.
Put on your sunglasses in order to help protect your eyes. Invest in a high quality pair that feature strong UV protection, and don’t ever leave home without them. The sun can be very damaging to your eyes, including the delicate skin surrounding them. Never take needless risks with your ability to see.
Figure out if eye problems run in your family. If so, you need to let your eye doctor know about it. Knowing something runs in your family allows your doctor to check for it more frequently. The sooner your doctor learns of it, the faster they can treat it, making a huge difference.
You may not realize this but what you eat may prevent certain issues with your eyes. Studies show that eating foods rich in Vitamins E and C, omega-3 fats and zinc often prevents macular degeneration and cataracts, along with other eye maladies. Tuna, salmon, beans, nuts, oranges and green, leafy vegetables are some foods that contain these nutrients.
Give up the cigarette habit soon. Eyes suffer, just as the rest of your body. Those who smoke for a long time are much more likely to develop eye disease. If you quit now, you cut down your risk of getting nerve damage or cataracts.
Improve your eye health with omega-3 fatty acids. It would be smart to add these acids to your diet. Tuna, halibut, salmon and leafy, green vegetables are great dietary choices. Try eating one serving a day.
You should be able to see how this information can help you with your eye care. You have to use this information properly in order to take proper care of your eyes. Use all of this information as you will, and things will be just fine for you in the end.
January 1st, 2019 | Tags: Cataract Evaluation West Los Angeles, Cataract Surgeon West Los Angeles, Cataract Surgery West Los Angeles, Corneal Surgeon West Los Angeles, Corneal Surgery West Los Angeles, Eye Doctors West Los Angeles, Glaucoma Evaluation West Los Angeles, Intraocular Lens Implant West Los Angeles, Laser Eye Surgery West Los Angeles, Laser Vision Correction West Los Angeles, Ophthalmologists West Los Angeles, Ophthalmology West Los Angeles | Category: Eye Care | | Posted by admin
Happy New Year!
January 1st, 2019 | Tags: Cataract Evaluation West Los Angeles, Cataract Surgeon West Los Angeles, Cataract Surgery West Los Angeles, Corneal Surgeon West Los Angeles, Corneal Surgery West Los Angeles, Eye Doctors West Los Angeles, Glaucoma Evaluation West Los Angeles, Intraocular Lens Implant West Los Angeles, Laser Eye Surgery West Los Angeles, Laser Vision Correction West Los Angeles, Ophthalmologists West Los Angeles, Ophthalmology West Los Angeles | Category: Eye Care | | Posted by admin
Older Entries »
Follow Us!
Email Address *
First Name
Last Name
Join Our Mailing List!
Email Address *
First Name
Last Name
Categories
Eye Care
Tags
Anything in here will be replaced on browsers that support the canvas element
eye care
Ophthalmology West Los Angeles
Ophthalmologists West Los Angeles
Laser Eye Surgery West Los Angeles
Cataract Evaluation West Los Angeles
Cataract Surgeon West Los Angeles
Laser Vision Correction West Los Angeles
Glaucoma Evaluation West Los Angeles
Clear Vision Family Center
info@clearvisionfamilycenter.com
1130 Westwood Boulevard
Los Angeles CA 90024 United States
(424) 256-6623
Powered by Clear Vision Family Center © 2014
This site is protected by wp-copyrightpro.com