Windshield washer fluid: MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia
Skip navigation
U.S. National Library of Medicine
The navigation menu has been collapsed.
Menu
Health Topics
Drugs & Supplements
Videos & Tools
About MedlinePlus
Show Search
Search MedlinePlus
GO
About MedlinePlus
Site Map
FAQs
Customer Support
Health Topics
Drugs & Supplements
Videos & Tools
Español
You Are Here:
Home →
Medical Encyclopedia →
Windshield washer fluid
URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002803.htm
Windshield washer fluid
To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.
Windshield washer fluid is a brightly colored liquid made of methanol, a poisonous alcohol. Sometimes, small amounts of other toxic alcohols, such as ethylene glycol, are added to the mixture.
Some young children may mistake the fluid for juice, which can lead to accidental poisoning. Even small amounts can cause serious damage. This article discusses poisoning from swallowing windshield washer fluid.
This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
Poisonous Ingredient
Methanol (methyl alcohol, wood alcohol)
Where Found
This poison is found in:
Windshield washer fluid (used to clean automobile windows)
Symptoms
Symptoms of windshield washer fluid poisoning affect many different body systems.
Airway and lungs:
Breathing difficulty
No breathing
Eyes:
Blindness, complete or partial, sometimes described as "snow blindness"
Blurred vision
Dilation (widening) of the pupils
Heart and blood:
Low blood pressure
Nervous system:
Agitated behavior
Coma (unresponsiveness)
Confusion
Difficulty walking
Dizziness
Headache
Seizures
Skin and nails:
Bluish-colored lips and fingernails
Stomach and intestines:
Abdominal pain (severe)
Diarrhea
Liver problems, including jaundice (yellow skin) and bleeding
Nausea
Vomiting, sometimes bloody
Other symptoms may include:
Fatigue
Leg cramps
Weakness
Yellow skin (jaundice)
Home Care
Seek immediate medical help. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do so by Poison Control or a health care professional.
Before Calling Emergency
The following information is helpful for emergency assistance:
Person's age, weight, and condition (for example, is the person awake or alert?)
Name of the product (ingredients and strengths, if known)
Time it was swallowed
Amount swallowed
However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately available.
Poison Control
Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States. They will give you further instructions.
This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any questions about poisoning or poison prevention. You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
What to Expect at the Emergency Room
The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be treated as appropriate. The person may receive:
Activated charcoal
Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and breathing machine (ventilator)
Blood and urine tests
Chest x-ray
CT (computerized tomography, or advanced imaging) scan
EKG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
Fluids through a vein (intravenous or IV)
Medicine to treat symptoms, including antidotes to reverse the effect of the poison (fomepizole or ethanol)
Tube through the nose to remove the remaining poison if the person is seen within 60 minutes of swallowing it
Because rapid removal of methanol is a key to treatment and survival, a kidney machine (renal dialysis) will likely be needed.
Outlook (Prognosis)
Methanol, the main ingredient in windshield washing fluid, is extremely poisonous. As little as 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) can be deadly to a child. About 2 to 8 ounces (60 to 240 milliliters) can be deadly for an adult. Blindness is common and often permanent despite medical care. Multiple organs are affected by intake of methanol. Permanent organ damage may occur.
The ultimate outcome depends on how much poison was swallowed and how soon treatment was received.
Although many windshield washer fluids are a watered-down form of methanol, they can still be dangerous if swallowed.
References
Kostic MA. Poisoning. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 63.
Little M. Toxicology emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown A, Little M, eds. Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 29.
White SR. Toxic alcohols. In: Marx JA, Hockberger RS, Walls RM, et al, eds. Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 155.
Review Date 1/31/2017
Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
NIH MedlinePlus MagazineRead more
Health Topics A-ZRead more
Easy-to-Read MaterialsRead more
A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, also known as the American Accreditation HealthCare Commission (www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability. A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy, editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of Hi-Ethics and subscribes to the principles of the Health on the Net Foundation (www.hon.ch).
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2019, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.
About MedlinePlus
Site Map
FAQs
Customer Support
Get email updates
Subscribe to RSS
Follow us
Disclaimers
Copyright
Privacy
Accessibility
Quality Guidelines
Viewers & Players
MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
For Developers
U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health
Page last updated: 01 April 2019