Vaccine Theory of AIDS Takes a Blow | Science | AAAS
Skip to main content
Home
News
Journals
Topics
Careers
Search
Search
Search
Search
Log in
My account
Contact us
Become a member
Renew my subscription
Sign up for newsletters
.
Authors
Members
Librarians
Advertisers
Home
Recent Videos
Latest Podcasts
Photo Galleries
Dance Your Ph.D. Contest
News
Latest News
ScienceInsider
ScienceShots
Sifter
From the Magazine
About News
Quizzes
Journals
Science
Science Advances
Science Immunology
Science Robotics
Science Signaling
Science Translational Medicine
Science Partner Journals
Topics
All Topics
Special Issues
Custom Publishing
Careers
Articles
Find Jobs
Career Resources
Forum
For Employers
Employer Profiles
Graduate Programs
Booklets
Advertising Features
Search
Search
Share
AIDS is thought to have jumped from chimps to humans--but not through an oral polio vaccine, according to the new study.
Vaccine Theory of AIDS Takes a Blow
By Jon Cohen Sep. 12, 2000 , 7:00 PM
London--A controversial theory that a contaminated polio vaccine tested in Africa more than 40 years ago sparked the AIDS epidemic took a severe hit yesterday. At a spirited, sometimes raucous Royal Society meeting, researchers revealed that tests of old samples of the vaccine contained no traces of HIV or a closely related chimp virus. But the theory's main proponent, British writer Edward Hooper, claims the results don't disprove his scenario.
Most AIDS researchers believe that HIV infected humans through the hunting and handling of chimpanzees, some of which have been found to harbor a closely related virus called SIVcpz. This "natural transfer" theory holds that a "cut hunter" was infected, and then urbanization, the use of dirty needles in medical campaigns, increased geographic mobility, and other effects of modernization in Africa caused the epidemic to explode.
Hooper last year laid out a challenge to this conventional wisdom in a thick tome, The River, that pins the genesis of the AIDS epidemic on a long-forgotten oral polio vaccine made by Hilary Koprowski and colleagues. Between 1957 and 1960, Koprowski, former head of the Wistar Institute in Philadelphia, tested his vaccine on a million people in what is now the Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi, and Rwanda. Hooper posits that the vaccine became contaminated with SIVcpz because researchers used kidney cells from infected chimpanzees during the manufacturing process. As circumstantial evidence, Hooper contends that the earliest cases of AIDS closely match the sites of these vaccinations. And he argues in The River that the Wistar Institute could help settle the case by testing the few remaining samples of the vaccine.
Now, three independent labs have done just that. At the Royal Society meeting, Claudio Basilico, the head of the expert committee and chairman of microbiology at New York University Medical Center, described the results of tests on seven old vaccine samples found in Wistar's freezers. Koprowski has insisted that he used kidneys from monkeys, not chimpanzees, to make the vaccine, so one lab analyzed primate mitochondrial DNA in the samples. Another looked for SIV or HIV genetic material. And the third lab, headed by Simon Wain-Hobson of the Pasteur Institute--who has been sympathetic to Hooper's point of view and even helped do some research for him--ran tests for both virus and mitochondrial DNA. All the samples tested negative for simian and human viruses, and the mitochondrial DNA clearly came from monkey, not chimpanzee, cells.
Hooper did not challenge the results; he simply dismissed them. "This means nothing at all for the polio vaccine theory," he said at a jam-packed press conference held a few minutes later. Hooper noted that the samples didn't come from the exact lots of the polio vaccines tested in Africa. Indeed, Koprowski himself has acknowledged that no such samples still exist. Hooper added that he recently had discovered "two smoking guns": Two people who worked in Africa on the project whose first-hand accounts support the idea that Koprowski or his collaborators used chimpanzee kidney cells to make the vaccine.
But Stanley Plotkin, an emeritus professor at the University of Pennsylvania who helped Koprowski make and test the vaccine, says he has spent the past year contacting former collaborators, and 16 scientists have testified, in writing, that they never worked with chimpanzee cells. "I'm sure Mr. Hooper will be disappointed by the results of this meeting," said Plotkin. "There is no gun. There is no bullet. There is no shooter. There is no motive. There is only smoke created by Mr. Hooper."
Supporters of Hooper's theory remained unconvinced. Brian Martin, a social scientist from Australia's University of Wollongong, argued that if people scrutinized the natural transfer theory as closely as they have examined Hooper's scenario, it would prove to be just as unsatisfying. "There is one thing I will predict as a social scientist," said Martin. "Whatever happens at this conference, this controversy will continue."
Related sites
Edward Hooper, The Genesis of AIDS: Mother Nature, or The Hand of Man?
The Wistar Institute
Brian Martin's Web pages about the controversy
Posted in:
Biology
Jon Cohen
Jon is a staff writer for Science.
Email Jon
Twitter
More from News
How long do vaccines last? The surprising answers may help protect people longer
New genetic ‘risk score’ could predict obesity odds
Powerful CRISPR cousin accidentally mutates RNA while editing DNA target
Got a tip?
How to contact the news team
Science Insider
Exclusive: Major U.S. cancer center ousts ‘Asian’ researchers after NIH flags their foreign ties
By Mara Hvistendahl Apr. 19, 2019
Archaeological society tries to stem continuing controversy over #MeToo scandal
By Lizzie Wade Apr. 18, 2019
Stanford says its researchers did not help Chinese biologist who gene edited babies
By Jon Cohen Apr. 16, 2019
Influential senator asks NSF for data on threat from foreign influences
By Jeffrey Mervis Apr. 15, 2019
African research projects are failing because funding agencies can’t match donor money
By Christopher Bendana Apr. 15, 2019
More ScienceInsider
Sifter
Gene therapy works for bubble boy disease
Apr. 19, 2019
Scientists restore some cellular functions in dead pig brains
Apr. 18, 2019
NASA planet hunter finds its first Earth-size world
Apr. 17, 2019
Brain scans find CTE-linked protein in living former NFL players
Apr. 12, 2019
‘Wall of death’ that entombed Pompeii surfed a cushion of air to reach top speed
Apr. 9, 2019
More Sifter
Science
19 April 2019
Vol 364, Issue 6437
Epidemiology
Waning immunity
Epidemiology
Ebola outbreak continues despite powerful vaccine
Ecology
New climate models forecast a warming surge
Epidemiology
Lyme disease research gets a needed boost
Scientific Community
Supporters scramble to rescue storied Jason advisory group
Anthropology
#MeToo controversy erupts at archaeology meeting
Table of Contents
About us
Journals
Leadership
Team members
Work at AAAS
Advertise
Advertising kits
Awards and Prizes
Custom publishing
Webinars
For subscribers
Site license info
For members
International
Chinese
Japanese
Help
Access & subscriptions
Reprints & permissions
Contact us
Accessibility
Stay Connected
© 2019 American Association for the Advancement of Science. All rights Reserved. AAAS is a partner of HINARI, AGORA, OARE, CHORUS, CLOCKSS, CrossRef and COUNTER.
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Contact Us