Overhydration is a thing: this is how your body tells you you're drinking too much water -
Menu
Home
Cleaning
Health
Food
Home & Garden
Lifehacks
Do It Yourself
Fashion & Beauty
Various
Health
Overhydration is a thing: this is how your body tells you you’re drinking too much water
We all try to avoid dehydration, but what about overhydration?
Drinking a glass of water first thing in the morning, taking a bottle of water with you on the road and frequently refilling your glass at work. We all do it because we know drinking enough water is important. But did you know there’s also such a thing as overhydration?
The consequences aren’t pleasant.
Drinking water
There are plenty of people who have trouble drinking enough water every day. On the other hand, there are also fervent water drinkers who can knock back glass after glass. We’re told over and over again that we should make sure we drink enough water. Are you not part of the group of diligent water drinkers? Then it’s important to make sure you drink enough. Let’s start with a few tips for people who don’t drink enough water in a day before we get into overhydration:
Begin your day with a glass of water.
Use a mobile app to track your water intake.
Give your water some flavour to make it more attractive to drink.
Drink from a bottle and place it in your line of sight.
Eat more types of fruit that contain water.
But, like we said, there’s also such a thing as drinking too much water. People who tend to overhydrate need the exact opposite advice.
Advice
In most cases the advice concerning water is that you should drink between two and three liters a day. This can also be tea or soda – it’s about your general intake of fluids. Do you drink too little? Then you can become dehydrated and you can experience bad skin, headaches and other nasty symptoms. Do you think you’re drinking more than three liters of water a day? That’s no biggie; your body can still handle it.
When you do drink too much water, though, you can experience some nasty symptoms and you might even get water intoxication! Go to the next page to read all about it.
Page 1 of 2
1 2Next
Facebook
Prev Article Next Article
Related Posts:
Got a growling or grumbling stomach? This is what it means
Why you shouldn’t wash your hands with soap or hand sanitiser too often
WARNING: Do you wear hair ties around your wrist? You’d better stop! It’s really dangerous!
Our fingerprints can tell us a lot about ourselves. What kind of fingerprints do you have?
Night sweats? How to prevent sweating while you’re sleeping
Categories:
Cleaning (225)
Do It Yourself (14)
Fashion & Beauty (54)
Food (121)
Health (197)
Home & Garden (182)
Lifehacks (162)
Various (170)
Recent posts:
5 facts about dreams and sleep everyone should know
Cram it full or not? 4 of your most pressing dishwasher questions answered
5 food products that will help reduce the bags under your eyes
This is why you should add aspirin to your vase of flowers
Fact or fable? Here’s what a doctor has to say about the five-second rule
Search:
Other:
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Advertising
Contact Us
Tips and Tricks Copyright © 2019. All rights reserved.
Cleaning
Health
Home & Garden
Lifehacks
Various
Tips and Tricks is using cookies to let you have the most optimized user experience.Yes, I accept cookiesCookie Policy