Morphine addiction treatment
Home Page
About Us
Addiction treatment
Addiction
Difference between an addict and abuser
Addictive disease definition
Our Services
Media
Video
Photo Gallery
Contact US
Morphine addiction treatment
Home
Addiction treatment
Morphine addiction treatment
Morphine addiction treatment
Read 106 times
Addiction Programs
- Morphine is extracted from opium which is extracted from poppy. Morphine is derived from opium and codeine is derive from morphine.
- The word “Opium” is derived a Greek word which means “the juicer” which is the juice of the poppy plant.
- Morphine deals directly with the human central nervous system, causing a state of tranquility sleep and soothe the pain, so it can be used for medical purposes interwoven with other materials under medical supervision and in limited situations and is bordered by the therapist himself.
Side effects of morphine:
1- Retention and severe vomiting and accelerated low blood pressure.
2- Drop in heart beat rate.
3- Severe dyspnea and cough.
Morphine poisoning signs consists in:
1- Severe coma.
2- Impaired breathing and low blood pressure.
3- Skin paleness and tight IRIS, and slow pulse.
4- It may end up dying as a result of paralysis in the nerve centers of breathing.
Morphine addiction symptoms:
It is already clear that knowing the signs of morphine addiction is extremely important and we summarized those marks in:
1- The stress overload, continuous shivering or shaking and heavy sweating.
2- Anxiety and depression are pursuing morphine addicts then turns to hallucinations and imaginings which infect addicts.
3- Permanent sneezing, rashes for addicts who suffer allergic to morphine.
Morphine addiction signs:
Mood swings – narrow pupil – drowsiness or low energy – poor personal hygiene and appearance – large fluctuations in weight – nausea – needle marks on arms, legs, hands or neck – shivering – difficulty in speaking – loss of motivation – loss of interest in usual activities – failure to fulfil obligations – stealing and begging money – corrupted or damaged veins – fungal or bacterial infections – impotence – menopause for women – breathing problems – pneumonia – depression – endocarditis or valves – kidney failure liver disease – rheumatic problems like arthritis – death.
« Alcohol addiction treatment
Shabu drug addiction treatment (Crystal Meth) »
Addiction Treatment Programs
Shabu drug addiction treatment (Crystal Meth)
Morphine addiction treatment
Alcohol addiction treatment
Captagon Pills addiction treatment
Tramadol during addiction treatment
Cannabis and Opium addiction
Cocaine addiction treatment
Heroin addiction treatment
Opium addiction treatment
Lyrica addiction treatment
Voodoo and stroks addiction
Spice addiction treatment
Joker addiction treatment
Subscribe to this RSS feed
There is no doubt that the decision of choosing an addiction treatment center is one of the most important decision taken by the patient or his family because of its future results and when choosing an addiction treatment center it's a must to keep in mind health mattes to ensure the validity of such therapy center.
Sitemap
About Us
Addiction Treatment
Latest News
YouTube Channel
12, Jul 2017
برنامج أنا والناس مع دكتوره أميرة فؤادعلي قناة الحياة
12, Jul 2017
حلقة برنامج صباح النور مع دكتورة أميرة فؤاد قناة ctv
12, Jul 2017
Copyright © 2017 Trust Recovery House Powered by Founded IN. all rights reserved.