Curtis Hopkins HIV Guide Medical Organisations & Charity News
Contact us
what is HIV?
Get Tested
Mother To Infan
HIV Transmission
Warning Signs of HIV
HIV Medical Negligence Misdiagnosis Through No Win No Fee Solicitors
Latest
In much of the health industry medical workers devote much of their lives to helping people each and every day. Although many health care workers are now stretched to the limit with long and and exhausting shifts and very little pay they still strive in most cases to do the best they can. Without many of the health care workers we have a lot of people would suffer. In order to provide an ultimate service hospitals have to be open around the clock offering constant treatment to those who need it.
However there are times when such care and assistants can fall below the standard in which the health care profession prides itself in. Even though such a breach of duty is not deliberately intended it can have in certain circumstances have devastating affects to the patient. It is vital to say that very often when the standard of care slips no medical staffs have set out to cause harm but have allowed the service they have provided to be of a substandard and as a medical professional providing a standard of care that is next to none should always be at the forefront of their minds.
What is Medical Misdiagnosis?
Being misdiagnosed can in turn have huge effects on a person health as in many cases it has a knock on affect. When a patient is misdiagnosed it refers to the wrong detection of a particular condition. Being wrongly diagnosed can then lead on to a patient suffering further with their health actually deteriorating due to the fact that the condition they have is not being treated and therefore may be worsening. If you feel that you have been misdiagnosed in some way, may be you have been going to the doctors for a while with the same condition but it has only been discovered lately and your health has deteriorated as a consequence then you can make a claim for medical misdiagnosis by contacting No Win No Fee Solicitors who deal with medical negligence claims.
How Can HIV be Misdiagnosed?
The acronym term HIV, stands for Human Immunodeficiency Virus which is a lifelong condition that has no cure. With many illnesses the immune system can often fight illnesses off or medication and treatment are used to help in the process of getting better. With HIV medication can only prolong a person’s life it cannot actually cure a person of the illness. The virus works by attacking the immune system which is a human’s defence system against illness. The immune system is put in place so that humans can fight off illness and sickness. The virus can be transmitted in a number of ways as it is contained within humans bodily fluids, the main to ways of transmitting the virus is through unprotected intercourse and the sharing of used needles. In order to test for HIV a blood test needs to be taken so that the blood can be examined and to see if the virus has been contracted.
Being misdiagnosed in the event of HIV can happen in several ways, these can include;
Screening tests which usually mean blood tests in this case can be read wrongly and the wrong results given to the patient.
Initial test results taken can get mixed up or filed wrong
Blood work in the lab can be labelled wrongly and persons details confused with another
What are the Consequences of being HIV Misdiagnosed?
With any illness being misdiagnosed can have huge consequences on the patients life. In the event of a person being wrongly diagnosed where they are told they do not have HIV but they actually do it can mean a delay in treatment. HIV can only be managed by medication there is no actual cure, an aspect of the medication that is provided is to prolong the patient’s life. Without such treatment being prescribed the patient can worsen and overall their life shortened. A major concern with being told that a person is HIV negative when really they have transmitted the virus is it being spread due to them being told that they are virus free. This can have grave effects as the virus can be passed on to innocent people.
In the event a person is told that they are HIV positive when the actual truth is that they are negative can still have consequences on a patient. Although when the actual correct diagnosis is given to the patient of being HIV negative it will be to say the least a relief that they never had a life long illness such as this but they might have changed their life in a way that is hard to reverse as they might have told people who may find it hard to believe that the testing was wrong. They may have also been on medication that may have harmed them as it was never needed. It may have also harmed them psychologically and may need on going treatment in this department.
How to Start a No Win No Fee Medical Negligence Claim for Misdiagnosis?
Most claims process start by informing the place where the negligent incident took place that there has been a breach of duty in their practise and that the breaching of such has in its after math caused consequences to your health. It is always more efficient to start any no win no fee medical negligence claim procedure by informing those responsible that the treatment in which you have received has been of a standard that is not acceptable even if you do not wish to purse a claim so that they can be aware that the service and treatment which they provide needs evaluating. Be sure to claim through a no win no fee solicitor that way if the claim is not successful you will not have to pay the solicitor any money.
The next step is to instruct a law firm that specialise in medical negligence possible who specialise in medical misdiagnosis as much of the claim procedure can be considered difficult as medical law is highly specialised. Even contacting a law firm can be done on-line by filling out a contact form and a highly trained member of the team will get back to you in order to assist you with your claim. Or if preferred you can speak to a solicitor who specialises in this area by making a call you can get the phone number by visiting MedicalNegligenceAssist.co.uk see if you have a valid claim for medical misdiagnosis. To find more information about medical negligence you can visit the medical innovation .
What is the Time Limit on Medical Misdiagnosis Claim Cases?
With most medical negligence misdiagnosis claim cases there is a 3 year time limit. So the victim has three years from the date of the incident to make a claim. However there are exceptions and these may include;
If a person under the age of 18 is a victim of medical negligence they have 3 years after they turn 18 to make a claim for medical negligence.
If a person is suffering from a mental illness they have 3 years after they recover from the mental illness to bring a claim forward.
If the person who has the mental illness does not recover from such an illness there is no time limit placed on the claim.
Is There Life After HIV?
Latest
If you have just been told that you are HIV positive, chances are that you are fearful, alone, and simply overwhelmed. These feelings are natural and there is nothing to feel ashamed about. Be aware, that you are not alone, there are millions of people all around the world that live with this virus on a daily basis, and tons of people that have still managed to make the most out of their lives, despite their diagnosis.
There are varieties of people and resources that can help you, on this new path in your life. Even though your life is going to be forever changed, once you have been diagnosed, there is no way to reverse the diagnosis. Unlike other types of illnesses, the human body is unable to fight off HIV. In the past, if an individual were diagnosed with this condition, their death certificate was already written for them.
HIV, which is an acronym term for human immunodeficiency virus, is the virus that eventually causes AIDS. AIDS is the final progressive stage of the virus, and there is no cure for this state of the virus either. Just because you have been diagnosed with HIV, this does not mean that you have AIDS. There are new treatment options that are being introduced every single day for the condition, which is slowing down its progression, and stopping it from turning into the AIDS virus.
STAYING POSITIVE
Trying to remain positive after receiving an HIV diagnosis is difficult to do. Knowing that you have a condition that there is no cure for can be rough. However, you should never allow the virus to take control of your life. True, it is a condition that is never going to go away. But, the condition can only get you down if you allow it to. As long as you take the proper steps to treating your condition, there is nothing that can stop you from living a relatively normal life, minus a few routine doctor’s visits that you will need to attend on a sporadic basis.
It is important to surround yourself with positive influences. If you surround yourself around people that feel sorry for you, then you will develop this feeling as well. Surround yourself around people that can see you for the person that you are, not for your condition. Do not allow negativity or negative people to be a part of your life. Thinking negatively and being around negative people is going to do nothing but bring you down. The last thing that you need is to live the rest of your life feeling sorry for yourself, because you have this virus.
Learn What Being HIV Positive Means
It is important to remember that knowledge is power. This is especially true, when information that can save your life is at stake. Do not be afraid to seek out information that will tell you more about your condition. Read websites that discuss the HIV virus, and talk to people that like you have been diagnosed with the virus.
Never be afraid to speak with your doctor about your condition. One of the biggest mistakes that you can make after being diagnosed is to wait to seek medical attention. You need to find yourself a doctor that you can trust. Your doctor needs to be the one person that you are not ashamed to discuss your condition with. Reach out to groups that focus on HIV. There are many different online and offline forums and groups that you can join. Knowing that you are not alone in the fight is a great way to remain positive. Focus your attention on the people that love and know you, and understand that there is life after being diagnosed with HIV.
HIV: Myths Vs. Facts
Latest
For the past thirty years, people have had their own beliefs about HIV, and how it is contracted. The virus has sprouted up variety of misconceptions and myths. Some of these myths have actually increased the amounts of people who become infected with the virus, which causes more people to be HIV positive individuals.
Even though there are still some questions regarding the virus that continue to go unanswered, there has been an excessive amount of research performed, to help clear up questions and concerns. There is still more to learn about the virus, and more research that needs to be carried out concerning it. To ensure that you stay safe, and do not run the risks of contracting HIV, you need to be able to decipher between myths and facts, as they relate to the virus.
MYTH: I Can Catch HIV By Being Around People That Have It
Scientific evidence proves that you cannot contract HIV by touching, sweating, crying, or kissing someone who has the virus. HIV is not contracted by breathing the same air as an infected person, sitting on a toilet seat that an infected person has sat on, or drinking from the same exact water fountain as someone who has the virus. HIV can be contracted through semen, vaginal secretions, and infected blood.
MYTH: HIV Is No Big Deal Medicines Can Help Me
The medications that are used to help people with HIV have advanced, from where they used to be in the past. These medications have made it possible for people with HIV to live long and prosperous lives. However, the treatment drugs do have some drawbacks. They can be expensive and they produce a bout of side effects, for those that take them. Also, there are some strains of HIV that are still resistant to treatment options.
MYTH: HIV Is Transmitted By Mosquitos
Due to the fact that HIV is transmitted by blood, there are a lot of misconceptions that a person can become infected with the virus, if a mosquito were to sting them. Mosquitos are blood sucking insects that do not care who they bite, and whose blood they consume. Therefore, when HIV cases started to increase, many people were frightful that they may increase the possibility of becoming infected if a mosquito were to sting them.
There have been multiple studies conducted regarding this accusation. According to the studies, there is not enough evidence to support the fact that mosquitos can cause the spread of HIV. When an insect stings an individual, they do not inject the blood that they got from another person, into the next. Also, if an insect does bite someone who has HIV, the virus does not live for an elongated frame of time in the body of the insect.
Myth: I Am Heterosexual And Do Not Use Drugs So I Will Not Become Infected
Most men that contract HIV do so by engaging in sexual acts with other men. However, heterosexual men do still run the risk of becoming infected, even if they do not engage in homosexual acts and are no drug users. Sixteen percent of men that become infected and seventy eight percent of women that become infected with the virus, do so through engaging in heterosexual encounters.
MYTH: My Partner And I Both Have HIV-We Do Not Need To Use Protection
Most people believe that if they are in a relationship with someone else that has HIV that they do not have to worry about using contraceptives with the individual, because they cannot spread the virus to a person that is already infected. This is not true, it is best to still practice safe sex, even in this scenario. Just because your partner already has the virus, this does not mean that the both of you have the same strain of the virus.
How Is HIV Transmitted?
Latest
There is a relatively small HIV epidemic that exits in the United Kingdom, when compared to other parts of the world. Estimates state that roughly 98,000 people residing in the UK are infected. This means that 1.5 out of 1000 people within the UK are currently infected with the virus. While this number may sound like it is relatively low, the amounts of people infected with the virus within the United Kingdom have increased drastically since the early 1990s.
Although, statistically, 98,000 people have contracted the HIV virus, only twenty two percent of the individuals that have the condition, are aware of its existence. This is fairly alarming. People that are unaware of their condition are more likely to reach the final stage of the condition, which is AIDS. Once the final stage has been attained, there are only a few treatments that can help an individual maintain their mortality.
THE TRANSMISSION ROUTES OF HIV
Of the total number of HIV diagnoses that were made within the UK, fifty one percent of cases were a result of homosexual encounters, forty five percent of the cases occurred from heterosexual encounters, two percent were a result of drug use, and less than two percent of cases were due to mother to child transmission, blood and tissue transfers, and other undisclosed reasons. Transmission occurs when bodily fluids, such as blood, semen, or breast milk from an infected person come in contact with an open orifice of an uninfected individual. Saliva and casual contact do not inhibit the spread of the HIV virus.
HETEROSEXUAL ENCOUNTERS
The amounts of people that contracted HIV through heterosexual encounters accounts for forty five percent of the ways that HIV is transmitted within the UK. However, the amount of people that are infected with HIV in this manner, are beginning to drastically decline within the area. The number of infections that occur in this mannerism, mean that the amounts of women that are being infected with the virus has risen over the past twenty five years.
In the past, men were the dominant carriers of the virus. Although, the numbers of men infected with the virus are still higher than the amounts of women who have the virus, statistically, women carrying the infection have seen a steady increase. In the past, ratio of men to women who had the virus was six to one, now the ratio is 2.1 males to every single female.
HOMOSEXUAL ENCOUNTERS
Fifty one percent of people, who contract HIV in the UK, do so, through sexual encounters with the same sex. Male to male sexual encounters are becoming common in the UK. Out of the males that have the HIV virus in the UK, only seventeen percent of the individuals that have the virus are aware of it. Although homosexuality is nothing to be ashamed of, carrying out sexual encounters in a smart manner, can help to stop the spread of the virus.
DRUG USE
Although drug use does account for a small percentage of people who contract HIV in the UK, it is still one factor that allows for transmission of the virus; People that use drugs that require them to inject themselves with needles, run the risk of contracting HIV, especially if the needles that are being used are being shared amongst users. Two percent of the people diagnosed with HIV, contract the virus from sharing dirty needles, during drug related activities.
MOTHER TO CHILD TRANSMISSION
If a mother is carrying the virus, this does not always mean that their child will become infected. With all of the tests and treatment options that are available, this is becoming a rare means of contracting the virus. However, the possibility of HIV being transmitted in this manner is still relevant.
Recent Posts
HIV Medical Negligence Misdiagnosis Through No Win No Fee Solicitors
Is There Life After HIV?
HIV: Myths Vs. Facts
How Is HIV Transmitted?
All Pages
Knowing When To Get Tested For HIV
Mother To Infant HIV Transmission
Steps To Preventing HIV Transmission
The Differences Between HIV And AIDS
The Early Warning Signs of HIV
What Is HIV?
Categories
Latest
Privacy Policy
© Copyright www.hopkins-hivguide.org