5 Best Belly Fat Burning Drinks to Flatten Your Tummy Fast – NUTRA & HEALTHY
NUTRA & HEALTHY
Navigation
Recipes
Yoga
Shop
celebrity
Search for:
0
Home / Yoga workout / 5 Best Belly Fat Burning Drinks to Flatten Your Tummy Fast
5 Best Belly Fat Burning Drinks to Flatten Your Tummy Fast
by Healthy Recipes
Just as sugary drinks add belly fat to your stomach, there are detox drinks that promote fat burn.
These belly fat burning drinks boost your metabolism and help rid of your toxins. Together, they maximize your fat burning potential and melt off your tummy fat.
The best part is these belly fat burning drinks will work with any weight loss diet.
They are easy to make, and the ingredients are accessible and common.
If you are serious about losing belly fat, it’s time to start adding these belly fat drinks to your daily routine.
Related Posts:
15 Best Food Swaps to Lose Belly Fat Fast
17 Best Ways to Lose Belly Fat Quickly
1. Apple Cider Vinegar
One of the many impressive benefits of apple cider vinegar is losing tummy fat.
It’s the acetic acid in apple cider vinegar that seems to help with reduction of belly fat.
In one study, 175 obese people who took apple cider vinegar daily reduced belly fat and lost weight (1).
To take ACV every day, make this belly fat reducing ACV diet drink:
1 tbsp of apple cider vinegar
1 cup (warm water),
1 tsp of raw honey
1 tbsp of squeezed lime juice.
Mix all four ingredients and drink every morning before breakfast.
The trick is to drink this first thing in the morning before you start eating or drinking anything else.
2. Lemon Water
Here is another powerful morning diet drink, lemon water.
Like ACV detox diet drink, lemon water can help you burn and lose belly fat.
Lemon is known for improving digestion and boosting energy for its high vitamin C (2).
It also has cleansing effects and helps flush out toxins out of your body. By making it into the lemon water, it brings hydration and metabolism benefits.
Since lemon water is a low-calorie drink, it can aid weight loss and fat loss by switching it from sugary drinks.
It can also help reduce belly fat as well.
Making a lemon water drink is easy.
Try our easy lemon water recipe:
1 glass of water
Lemon juice from 1/4 lemon
Just combine the two items below and drink.
Pair this drink with a healthy diet can wash away your stubborn belly fat.
Make this your go-to drink for the rest of your day to boost its benefits.
3. Green Tea
Green tea is one of the most popular weight loss and fat loss drinks.
And it’s well validated.
Many studies cite that drinking green tea can increase fat burn and help lose weight. It’s also effective for burning belly fat in the abdomen area.
It’s the high polyphenols content in green tea that makes this tea an exceptional diet drink. Also the catechins, green tea extract hold the key to its fat burning and metabolism benefits.
All in all, green tea, made of unfermented leaves are full of antioxidants that help with weight loss.
Drink around 3-5 cups per day to get the best benefits.
4. Coffee
This popular weight loss beverage is our morning staple.
But this cup of mojo can do far more than just wake us up in the morning.
Coffee is long known to rev up metabolism, increase fat burn and help lose belly fat.
Amongst all coffee, green coffee is particularly high in chlorogenic acids.
Research suggests it may assist in aiding weight loss by converting fat into energy (3).
The trick to keeping your coffee diet friendly is to keep your sugar and milk out of it. Have it black is the way to go.
5. Water
I know this one is boring, but it works.
That’s because 60 percent of the human body is made of water (4).
It’s a no-brainer water is essential not only to the weight loss but to the general health.
On top of it, water is a zero calorie beverage. It’s also a sugar-free drink that won’t affect your weight.
Unlike water, sugar-sweetened drinks come with empty calories. They cause not only a weight gain but also add belly fat to your waistline.
Just to add, it also makes it hard to lose the stubborn fat.
To lose belly fat fast, it’s best to completely avoid beverages that contain sugar.
Instead, drink water to burn belly fat and keep your appetite in check.
It’ll also boost your metabolism and flush out toxins. Your daily goal is to drink half of your body-weight in oz.
The Takeaway
To lose your belly fat, the easiest way is to replace sugary drinks with belly fat burning drinks to detox.
These five detox drinks not only aid them in reducing belly fat but also burning fat from other areas. On top of it, they help cleanse your body and add nutrients like antioxidants that boost your health.
Add these drinks to your flat tummy diet to cut your belly fat fast and watch your stomach shrink.
Facebook
Yummly
Pinterest
Twitter
WhatsApp
Print
Post Navigation
Previous ArticlePost Holiday 30 Day Fitness Challenge, Get Your Healthy Body Back.
Next ArticleSoft Batch Chocolate M&M Cookies
You may like
Yoga workout
5 Best Exercises to Lose Belly Fat Quickly
Yoga workout
Post Holiday 30 Day Fitness Challenge, Get Your Healthy Body Back.
Yoga workout
Yoga flow strength workout
what are you looking for?
Search for:
Follow us on pinterest
http://www.pinterest.com/Medraham
2019 recipesfeedfood.com everythings you needs Blossom Beauty by Blossom Themes. Powered by WordPress .
TOP
Facebook
Yummly
Pinterest
Twitter
WhatsApp
Print