Hemorrhoids Archives | Dr. Vikram Chauhan's Blog
Dr. Vikram Chauhan's Blog
HOME
ABOUT DR. VIKRAM CHAUHAN
ABOUT AYURVEDA
PRODUCTS
PHOTO GALLERY
CONTACT
Navigation
main menu
HOME
ABOUT DR. VIKRAM CHAUHAN
ABOUT AYURVEDA
PRODUCTS
PHOTO GALLERY
CONTACT
Category: Hemorrhoids
September 4, 2018
Dr. Vikram Chauhan
Get Instant Relief in Piles with 4 Best Ayurvedic Remedies
Overview
Piles or Hemorrhoids is a painful condition in which the veins of the lower end of the rectum get inflamed and enlarged. These are swollen veins found in and around the anus and rectum and can be either internal or external. The sensitive veins cause rectal bleeding which may flare up into a full-fledged infection.
Cause & Genetic factors
Hemorrhoids is more common in middle and old aged people or those who experience chronic constipation.
The straining caused during constipation is the primary cause of piles.
Genetic factors are also associated with piles at times.
Obesity and unhealthy diet are another major factor leading to piles.
Symptoms Of Hemorrhoids
Hemorrhoids show visible symptoms like bleeding from anus during or after bowel movements, intense itching around the anus, painful or itchy swelling or lump near the anus, painful bowel movement and leakage of stool in some cases.
According to Ayurveda
Ayurvedic medicines are holistic in nature, as they address the condition of mind, body and spirit, all together.
According to Ayurveda, imbalance of any of the doshas (vital energies: Vata, Pitta, and Kapha) leads to disorder in the body.
Those who are pitta tend to experience inflamed bleeding hemorrhoids that are soft and red, those who are Vata tend to experience severe pain, constipation and black hemorrhoids that are rough to touch, while those with Kaph nature may have poor digestion and light color hemorrhoids which are slippery and soft to touch but large in size. Ayurveda, aims at balancing the doshes to treat a disease.
Best Ayurvedic Remedies To Treat Piles or Hemorrhoids
Planet Ayurveda offers the Best Ayurvedic Remedies to Treat Piles in the form of PILES CARE PACK which includes a collection of 4 excellent products namely Sanjivani Vati, Vara Churna , Pile Off Capsules and Kanchnaar Guggal.
Planet Ayurveda also offers Nirgundi Oil and Drift Ointment to treat Hemorrhoids too.
All the medicines are prepared under supervision of Ayurvedic doctors.
Sanjivani Vati
The product constitutes effective Ayurvedic herbs like Guduchi, Shunthi, Amalaki, Pippali, Haritaki, Vidanga, Shuddh Bhalltaka, Vacha and Shuddh Vatsnabh that help in fixing faulty metabolism. Since constipation is the root cause of Piles, Sanjivani Vati is the best.
Ayurvedic remedy that helps in improving digestion , so that the stool remains soft and does not cause straining or pressure on the veins leading to bleeding.
Dosage
The recommended dosage of Sanjivani Vati to treat Piles is 2 tablets three times a day , preferably after meals.
Vara Churna
The product in the form of powder, is an herbal supplement containing Haritaki, Amalaki and Bhibhitaki that helps with cleansing the toxins out of the body and treating problems like gas, acidity, constipation.
It helps in controlling piles as it is an effective stool softener and regulates the acid mechanism.
Vara Churna is also a popular anti-aging Ayurvedic remedy.
It has anti-inflammatory and healing properties too.
Dosage
The recommended dosage of Vara Churna to treat Piles is one spoon two times daily with warm water, preferably after meals.
Piles Off Capsules:
These capsules are prepared from Haridra, Trikatu, Sajji Kshaar, Nagkeshar and Choti Harar.
The formulation works towards shirking the pile mass, relieves pain, bleeding and itching in the area.
The capsules help in stopping the bleeding associated with piles.
Dosage
The recommended dosage of Piles Off Capsules is 2 capsules twice daily preferably after meals.
Kanchnaar Guggul
Kanchnaar Guggul tablets are prepared from Kachnaar Bark, Guggul, Adrak, Varuna, Haritaki, Bibhitaki, Amalaki, Maricha and Pippali and is considered the best remedy for any kind of uncontrolled growth in the body.
This herbal preparation has the ability to shrink the pile mass /lump within first few doses.
Kanchnaar Guggul rejuvenates the affected area and is an overall nourishing product for the body.
It helps in reducing the swollen veins or mass which induces discomfort.
Dosage
The recommended dosage for Kanchnaar Guggul in treating Piles is 2 tablets twice daily preferably after meals.
Products Review
All the products from Planet Ayurveda are 100 % safe and natural. The formulations are prepared after passing through a series of effective and stringent tests that assure their quality.
The pack taken together helps to eradicate the piles from its root.
All these medicines are very effective in treating all types of piles, dry pile or bleeding piles. The right combination of natural herbs supports the overall colon health.
Nirgundi Oil and Drift Ointment helps in soothing the swelling and redness or inflammation around the anus.
Foods to Eat and Foods to Avoid
The simplest way to cure piles is to increase the intake of water to make the digestive system smooth.
It is recommended to consume salads like cucumber everyday right after breakfast.
The best vegetable to include in diet for piles patient is Carrot.
Carrots have anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties which helps in curing piles.
They are also rich in Vitamin C and Vitamin K which are known to improve vein health.
Piles patient should eat fiber rich food and exercise daily. They should quit smoking and limit alcohol intake.
All spicy and fried foods should be avoided.
Tips to Treat Hemorrhoids at Home
The best home remedy is to take figs on daily basis.
Soak a handful of figs in warm water overnight and consume it next morning on empty stomach.
Fruits like Jambul, Dried Figs, Amalaki and Papaya are best natural stool softeners.
Awareness
Though Piles is not considered to be a very serious problem and it generally disappears on its own, but at times surgical procedures are required to remove piles.
It is always good to treat the problem of piles using natural therapies of herbs before it gets too late.
Continue Reading
March 23, 2017
Dr. Vikram Chauhan
Homemade Remedies to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids Naturally
Hemorrhoids, with other name, piles can have severe outcome on our daily life, manifested by clumps of swollen veins around the area of anal opening or the anal canal, which is characterized by severe pain at time of passing stools, bleeding occurs during bowel movements, itching and pain in anal area for a long time brings about distress, so these symptoms bring about uncomfortable feeling each time one visits the toilet, and feels embarrassed in sharing the problem and asking for help.
Hemorrhoids can either be internal or external. Internal hemorrhoids develop within the anus or rectum. External hemorrhoids develop outside of the anus
Causes for Hemorrhoids-Possible factors include:
Straining during a bowel movement
Problem arises from chronic constipation
Sitting or standing for a long time and specially sitting on the toilet
A family history of hemorrhoids, where it can be passed on genetically from parent to child.
Risk also develops during pregnancy, where enlarged uterus presses on the vein in the colon, causing it to bulge.
Ayurvedic View for Hemorrhoids
Hemorrhoids called Arsha in Ayurveda, as per Ayurveda is caused due to vitiated Vata resulting in low digestive fire which leads to continuous constipation. Also accumulation of waste products in the body and varicose veins in the rectum promote the development of hemorrhoids.
Symptoms for Hemorrhoids
Irritation
Discomfort around anus
Pain and bleeding may occur during defecation
Itching
Pea-sized swellings
Homemade Remedies to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids Naturally
It can be managed naturally using some home remedies. Here are some homemade remedies which are easy to apply in our daily routine to get relief from the discomfort caused by hemorrhoids.
Use Aloe Vera gel
Aloe Vera is natural way to heal different kinds of infections involving hemorrhoids. Aloe plant can used directly, by cutting its leaf and open to extract the gel, which can be applied twice a day at the anal area. Other way to get relief is drinking daily plenty of Aloe Vera juice to heal internal piles. These help in making the stools so much softer, causes ease in passing them.
Sitz baths
A Warm bath is very effective to get relief from pain associated with hemorrhoids. People with painful hemorrhoids should lay on their back in warm water for 15 minutes, several times a day — mainly after a bowel movement. It helps to relieve pain, itching and burning sensation. This remedy is even useful in cleaning the anus and lessen the bacteria. After this therapy, do dry that area with a hair dryer because moisture might further irritate the sensitized skin.
High Fiber Diet
There is need to bring a change in diet, consume high fiber foods and also drink adequate amount of water.
High Fiber Diet helps to soften the stool, thereby eases in passing out, hence lessens the pressure on the hemorrhoids. Besides they support to regulate bowel movements which is helps to manage hemorrhoids.
High Fiber Diet includes:
Whole grains: – Brown Rice, Oatmeal, Barley, Millets, Maize etc.
Fruits: – Banana, Apples, Pears, Avocados, Artichokes, Peas and Winter Squash, Prunes etc.
Vegetables: – Broccoli, Dark Leafy Greens, Beans etc.
Avoid consuming foods rich in saturated fats, refined flours, sugar and red meat as these can exaggerate the hemorrhoids.
Psyllium Seed Husks –Rich in fiber, which can make the stools much softer, making the stools to pass out easily through anus and it will help to relieve pain and bleeding that happen due to hard stools and thus providing time to hemorrhoid to get heal.
Ground flaxseeds are also high in fiber content, and good for hemorrhoid.
Turmeric (Haldi)
Turmeric has antiseptic and ant-inflammatory properties, helps in healing of hemorrhoids. So, have a teaspoon of ground, fresh turmeric root, to get relief from it.
Potatoes
Take 2 washed potatoes and cut them into small slices and then blend these chunks in a blender, till they get into liquid form. One can add little water, in case it is dry. Spread this mixture over clean handkerchief or a thin gauze bandage and folding it up in half. After this preparation apply it on the hemorrhoids for around 5-10 minutes, this relieves the symptoms of pain
Oils for Hemorroids
Coconut Oil – Direct application of coconut oil, mainly virgin coconut oil to hemorrhoids, after bowel movement, properly cleaning the infected area, then rinse it and repeat this therapy twice daily. It is very helpful to feel better because of its antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory and anti-septic in nature.
Almond Oii
In a small bowl take some pure almond oil and then dip a cotton ball into this oil and apply it on the infected area. Repeat this similar procedure for a several times to get relief from hemorrhoids naturally.
Things to avoid:
Reduce the intake of salt and avoid spicy foods, red meat, fatty and over-processed foods. Stop the consumption of alcohol and tea in excess.
Continue Reading
1
2
Next →
View All Products
Online Consultation
Ask To Dr. Vikram Chauhan (MD-Ayurveda)
Name:*
Email:*
Subject:*
Message:*
CAPTCHA Code:*
Categories
Acidity/ Heartburn (3)
Acne & Pimples (5)
Adenomyosis (1)
Advanced Stage Renal Disease (2)
Alcoholic Liver Disease (5)
Allergic Rhinitis (14)
Allergy (9)
Allergy & asthma (12)
Alzheimer’s Disease (3)
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis(ALS) (1)
Anemia (2)
Ankylosing Spondylitis (1)
Anti-Aging (13)
Anti-Aging Supplements (13)
Anxiety (1)
Artery Blockages (1)
Arthritis / Bone / Joint Health (15)
Ascites (2)
Asthma (8)
Asthma & Allergies (23)
Avoid Dialysis (3)
Ayurveda (124)
Azotemia (1)
Back Pain (5)
Blemishes (1)
Blocked Arteries (1)
Blood Pressure (2)
Bone Cancer (1)
Brain / Memory Health (7)
Brain Tumor (1)
Brain Tumors (1)
Breast Cancer (2)
Bronchitis (4)
Bust Enhancement (1)
Cancer (7)
Cataract (1)
Cervical Spondylitis (1)
Chikungunya Fever (1)
Child Health (3)
Chronic Allergic Rhinitis (5)
Chronic Kidney Failure (3)
Chronic Sinusitis (3)
Circulatory Disorder (1)
Colon Cleanse (1)
Colovesical Fistula (1)
Common Flu (2)
Congestive Heart Failure (2)
Constipation (10)
COPD (1)
Dark Eye Circles (1)
Dengue Fever (4)
Dental / Oral Health (1)
Depression (3)
Detoxification (1)
Diabetes & Complications (13)
Diabetes Care (36)
Diabetic Nephropathy (4)
Diabetic Neuropathy (11)
Diarrhea (7)
Diffuse Idiopathic Skeletal Hyperostosis (1)
Digestive Health (50)
Dilated Cardiomyopathy (1)
Eczema (Dry) (3)
Eczema (Wet) (1)
Endocrine Health (1)
Endometriosis (7)
ENT Health (2)
Erectile Dysfunction (7)
Ewing Sarcoma (1)
Eyes Care (2)
Fatty Liver (6)
Female Health (19)
Fibromyalgia (2)
Fistula in Ano (1)
Gas / Flatulence (2)
Glaucoma (1)
Global LV Hypokinesia (1)
Gout (1)
Grahani (1)
Hair Health (2)
Hallux Rigidus (2)
Heart Health (6)
Hemochromatosis (1)
Hemorrhoids (3)
Hepatitis B (5)
Hiatus Hernia (1)
High Cholesterol (1)
High Pitta (1)
Hypertension (1)
Hyperthyroidism (2)
Hypothyroidism (4)
Hypothyroidism (3)
IBS (13)
Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (1)
Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (2)
Impotence (2)
Insomnia (2)
Interstitial Lung Disease (1)
Intussusception (1)
Irregular Menses (2)
Jaundice (3)
Kidney Failure Diet (3)
Kidney Health (11)
Kidney Stones (6)
Knee Pain (4)
Leukemia (All Blood Cancers) (1)
Liver Cirrhosis (6)
Liver Health (11)
Low Bone Density (1)
Low Immunity (7)
Low Memory (2)
Low Sperm Count (7)
Low Stamina (6)
Low Testosterone (1)
Low Testosterone (3)
Lung Cancer (3)
Lungs Health (3)
Male Health (11)
Menopause (3)
Mental Health (4)
Metabolic / Miscellaneous Disorders (3)
More Liver Diseases (3)
Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (1)
Nausea (1)
Neck Pain (1)
Nephritis (1)
Neurodermatitis (1)
Oily Skin (2)
Oral Cancer (1)
Osteoarthritis (6)
other (3)
Ovarian Cancer (3)
Ovarian Cysts (4)
Overweight (Obesity) (6)
Parkinson's Diseases (1)
Peptic Ulcer (3)
Piles (5)
Porphyria (4)
Pregnancy Support (1)
Premature Ejaculation (7)
Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (1)
Prostate Cancer (4)
Prostate Health (6)
Prurigo Nodularis (1)
Psoriasis (7)
Respiratory System (11)
Rheumatoid Arthritis (2)
Schizophrenia (1)
Skin Health (39)
Skin Pigmentation (2)
Sports Nutrition (2)
Stamina and Endurance (5)
Stiff Joints (5)
Stress (3)
Stress and Anxiety (7)
Superfoods (2)
Swine Flu (1)
Terminal Iletis (1)
Ulcerative Colitis (28)
Uncategorized (16)
Underweight (3)
Urea / Creatinine / Dialysis (2)
Urinary Tract Infection (2)
Uterus / Cervix Cancer (2)
Vitamin C (3)
Vitamin C (2)
Water Retention (5)
Water Retention (1)
Water Retention (1)
Weak Eye Sight (3)
Weight Gain (4)
Weight Loss (18)
Weight Loss (11)
White Discharge (Leucorrhea) (4)
Work Out Essentials (2)
Wrinkles (2)
Yoga Poses (2)
Articles By Dr. Vikram Chauhan
How Ayurveda Can Help To Treat Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)?
Alternative Treatments For Pancolitis - Ulcerative Colitis, Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Amazing Health Benefits of Ghee (Clarified Butter)
Deep Brain Stimulation By Ayurvedic Herbs
Ayurvedic treatment of Hidradenitis suppurativa
Health and Fitness
Copyright © 2019 Dr. Vikram Chauhan's Blog. All Rights Reserved.	Socialize Lite by Slocum Studio