Chronic Urinary Tract Infections and Sex
icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
Understanding Chronic Urinary Tract Infections and Sex
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Urological Health
Bladder Health
Urinary Tract Infections
Kidney Disease
Penis Health
Prostate Health
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Urological Health Bladder Health Urinary Tract Infections
Understanding Chronic Urinary Tract Infections and Sex
Avoiding Infections That Can Interrupt Your Sex Life
Print
By Laura Newman
Updated December 06, 2018
Ghislain & Marie David de Lossy/Getty Images
More in Urological Health
Bladder Health
Urinary Tract Infections
Kidney Disease
Penis Health
Prostate Health
There can be few things more frustrating to a relationship than when a urinary tract infection (UTI) interferes with sex. It is one thing when it happens every once in a while; it's another when it becomes an ongoing, chronic condition.
A UTI can develop in men and women, involving the lower tract (bladder and urethra) and/or the upper tract (kidneys and ureter). Women are more prone to getting a UTI – 10 times more likely, in fact – with lower tract infections being the more common problem when it comes to having sex.
Causes of Urinary Tract Infection
Bacteria, such as E.coli, can easily enter the urinary tract through the urethra, which is situated close to the genital area in both men and women. It can then travel up through the urethra and into the bladder where infection can develop. If the kidneys are involved, it becomes an even more serious condition called pyelonephritis, which requires immediate attention.
Honeymoon cystitis is a term used to describe a UTI that was a person gets after having sex with a new partner. It is most common in younger women who are just starting to have sex or for anyone just entering a new sexual relationship.
It is believed that women get UTIs more frequently because their urethra is shorter, making a bacteria's entry into the bladder all the simpler.
A chronic UTI is different from an acute UTI in that it either doesn't respond to traditional treatment or recurs frequently.
Tips for Preventing a Urinary Tract Infection
To better reduce your risk of getting a UTI, there are several things you can do:
Always wash your hands before and after sex, and try not to touch your genitals after you touch your or your partner's anus. The rectum, anus, and groin have a high density of bacteria that can easily be transferred to the urethra.
Urinate as often as needed, especially after sex, as this can help clear bacteria from the urinary tract. Drink plenty of water to flush bacteria out of the system. Women should wipe from front to back after urinating.
Speak with your doctor if you use a diaphragm or spermicide for contraception and are getting frequent bouts of UTI. A diaphragm can make it harder to empty your bladder completely (leaving bacteria behind to infect), while a spermicide can alter the natural bacterial makeup of the vagina (allowing foreign bacteria to flourish more readily). Alternate methods for contraception may need to be considered.
Wash your foreskin before and after sex if you are uncircumcised, and use condoms regularly.
Reduce your number of sex partners.
Drinking cranberry juice daily is sometimes recommended for persons with a chronic UTI.
Low-dose antibiotics are sometimes given as a daily preventive routine (although overuse can increase UTI risk by altering the bacterial flora of the vagina). In some cases, they are recommended only after you have sex.
While most studies investigating chronic UTIs have focused on younger age groups, there is now compelling evidence that shows a strong relationship between recent sexual intercourse and UTIs in postmenopausal women.
It is, therefore, just as important for older women to take the same preventive measures as younger ones, irrespective of how often you have sex or how many sexual partners you may have.
UTIs and Sexually Transmitted Infections
A number of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are known to cause UTIs, including trichomoniasis and chlamydia. Oftentimes a person will assume that the UTI is bacterial in nature (and treat it as such) and fail to identify the underlying STI.
It is, therefore, vital to consider your risk of STIs when any infection of the genitals or urinary tract is involved. This is especially true if you have multiple sex partners or have gotten a UTI after having sex with a new partner.
Current pediatric guidelines recommend that doctors take a comprehensive sexual history of any adolescent with urinary tract complaints and to routinely test them for STIs.
Meanwhile, sexually active men under the age of 35 who don't use condoms can experience a condition called epididymitis. It is an infection of the epididymis (the coiled tube to the back of the testicles) that can be caused either by a bacteria or an STI (most often gonorrhea or chlamydia). Treatment varies based on the cause and severity.
Safer sex practices, which includes the consistent use of condoms, are always the best plan for reducing the risk of these and other STIs.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Sign up for our Health Tip of the Day newsletter, and receive daily tips that will help you reach your 2019 goals.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Flores-Mireles, A.; Walker, J.; Caparon, M.; et al. "Urinary tract infections: epidemiology, mechanisms of infection and treatment options. Nature Reviews | Microbiology. May 2015; 13(5):269–284.
Musacchio, N.; Gehani, S; and Garofalo.R. "Emergency department management of adolescents with urinary complaints: missed opportunities." J Adolesc Health. 2009; 44:81-83.
Continue Reading
Article
How to Treat and Prevent Urinary Tract Infections
Article
Are UTIs Contagious? Can you spread them like an STD?
Article
20 Tips for Preventing Urinary Tract Infections
Article
Getting Rid of a UTI
Article
How to Tell If You Have a Urinary Tract Infection
Article
Avoiding the Dreaded Urinary Tract Infection After Surgery
Article
6 Urinary Tract Problems Every Man Should Know About
Article
The Health Benefits of D-Mannose
List
Tips to Avoid Problems With Your Urinary System
Article
Treatment for Kidney Infection or Pyelonephritis
Article
Recurring UTI? Get Rid of It for Good!
Article
What Are the Causes of Urethral Pain?
Article
UTIs: Causes and Risk Factors
Article
Keep an Eye Out for This Sign of a UTI
List
Urology and Sexual Anatomy Functions in Women
Article
Should You Be Concerned If Your Urine Is Cloudy?
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more