Magnetic bracelets cure wrist pains – especially copper
Magnetic bracelets cure wrist pains – especially copper
A study of 158 patients by researchers at the King Fahad Medical City has concluded that wearing magnetic bracelets can alleviate chronic wrist and hand pains and accelerate the healing of wrist injury.
The patients, suffering from a mixture of rheumatoid arthritis and repetitive strain injury were divided into an experimental group of 80 subjects and a control group of 78. The former were given magnetic bracelets, whilst the latter were given identical-looking bracelets but without magnets. The subjects and control group were told that the purpose of the experiment was to compare the effect of the materials and their looks. None were told about the magnets or magnetic therapy.
Controlled studies of magnet therapy have been hampered in the past by difficulty in making them double blind (i.e. with neither the experimenters nor the subjects knowing who have the items being tested). Keeping it secret from the experimenters is possible by using a coding system and ensuring that those who know have no contact with the test subjects. But the subjects themselves can test if an object is magnetic relatively easily unless they are detained in very strict, controlled conditions. In the case of this experiment, that was not possible, so the experimenters opted for the subterfuge of misleading the subjects as to what was being tested.
The test subjects reported an average pain level of 9.2 before the experiment and only 4.7 after. The control group, in contrast, reported an average drop from 9.2 to 8.6. of the test subjects, all were within the range of 10 to 7.6 before the experiment and 5.3 to 2.7. For the control group, the figures were a range of 9.8 to 7.7 before and 9.4 to 5.8 after.
But what was particularly surprising was that with both the test subjects and the control group, the results for those wearing copper bracelets were significantly lower than for titanium magnetic bracelets or hematite magnetic bracelets. In the test subjects, the average drop was from 9.1 to 4 for copper as compared to 9.2 to 4.9 for hematite and 9.3 to 5.2 for titanium. Even the copper-wearing sub-group of the control group dropped from an average of 9.4 to an average of 7.8.
As the subjects were told that the test was for the affects of the materials, and as copper has long been believed to have therapeutic properties, it is possible that this subset of the results was due to the placebo effect. However, whatever the underlying reason, the evidence does suggest that for those suffering from arthritic pain or repetitive strain injury, a visit to a nearby or online magnetic products store may be worthwhile and also that copper magnetic bracelets for men look like a particularly promising solution.
Shopping Basket
Magnetic Therapy Info
THE SPOTLIGHTS ON PRODUCTS
RESOURCES
BUYING MAGNETIC BRACELETS
GENERAL INFO
MAGNETS IN THERAPY
HISTORY
MAGNETS & MAGNETISM
ANIMALS & MAGNETS
SPORT & MAGNETIC POWER
HEALTH & MAGNETS
› Arthritis and Alternative Therapies
› Magnetic Bracelets and Arthritis
› Using magnetic bracelets to treat rheumatic disorders
› Blood circulation and magnetism
› Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and magnet therapy
› Conditions treated by magnetic therapy
› Copper, cramp and crippling pain
› Magnetic bracelets cure wrist pains – especially copper
› Magnetic bracelets – do they work?
› Magnetic effects on the endocrine system
› The effect of magnetism on the nervous system
› Treatment and healing with copper
› Magnetic therapy for post-polio patients
Advanced Search
STRENGTH (Highest strength 5):
All Results12345
SUITABLE MOSTLY FOR:
All ResultsMenUnisexWomen
PRODUCT TYPE:
All ResultsAnkletBangleLinks BraceletPendant
METAL:
All ResultsCopperGrade 2 TitaniumPlated Copper AlloyStainless Steel
Shop by Price
All Results£0 - £15£15 - £30£30 - £60£60+
Recently Viewed
Evo-Flow Energy Bands
Only £19.99 !
Available in White, Red and blue, the energy band represents superb value for money. Will make a great gift.
Click here to see the full range.
White Ceramic Bracelets
£29.99
Ceramic bracelet are most elegant and will stand scratches better than Titanium & Stainless Steel.
Click here to see the full range.
DID YOU KNOW?
You can send the item in
any condition
for the first 30 days after receiving it, or if new and unused,
any time!
LICK HERE FOR DETAILS
SUPER STRONG MAGNETS !
Booster bangles features two mega size magnets that makes all the difference - boosting the magnetic strength, and with the addition of four standard size magnets.
From £11.95 !
LASER ENGRAVED COPPER
From £ 7.99
Wide copper bangles, laser engraved with amazing patterns, with 6 powerful magnets. Shipped with luxury gift pouch.
JET-BLACK MEN'S TITANIUM
ONLY £ 27.00
Men's classic magnetic bracelets with two super strong magnets in each link.
SOMETHING SPECIAL FOR HER
£22.99 - £39.99
Classic range for ladies, offer wide range of prices and styles. Man, you cannot go wrong if you give one of those bracelets for St. Valentine's Day.
Treating Arthritis with Magnetic Bracelets
It appears to us from the feedback we are receiving from our customers that they proud supporters of using the unique benefits of treating arthritis with magnetic bracelets. Many others, mostly people that never used magnetic therapy, remain sceptic.
For this reason, it has become an issue of controversy between those that did not try magnetic therapy and do not believe in it, and those who actually used magnetic therapy.
And so it remains a hot topic in the world of medicine today.
With an estimated 8.5 million people in the UK suffering from different forms of arthritis, the suggestion that the inflammation that arthritis brings can be eased with something as simple as magnetic bracelet, it is no wonder that it is such a debated issue.
According to Arthritis-Relief.co.uk, there has been in recent years, and continues to be large volume of research conducted about using magnets to eliminate arthritic ailments which has demonstrated that magnetic bracelets, can be an effective method of pain management.
In the United States alone it is reported that as many as one in three adults are being affected by different forms of arthritis, with more than 70 million Americans suffering from the disease.
The Arthritis and Glucosamine Resource Centre reported that in a research carried out to whether or not magnetic bracelets are effective in fighting arthritis pain which questioned whether a ‘placebo effect’ of wearing a magnetic bracelet is the cause for arthritis patients endorsing that the bracelets create pain relief, it was concluded that arthritis patients should embrace magnetic bracelets with an open mind.
GENERAL
Go Top
All Products
Latest Products
Advance Search
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Return Policy
Resizing Links Bracelets
Spending Points
Bracelet Care
SITE INFORMATION
Postage
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Site Map
HELP
Contact Us
Read Our Blog
About Magnetic Therapy
© 2019 Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
ALL PRODUCTS
Special OffersBlack RangeTitanium BraceletsStainless Steel BraceletsBio 4 in 1 ElementsEnergy PendantsNew Items
For Him For Her Bangles Anklets
Contact UsRecent Product Reviews
View Cart | Wish List | New Account | Sign In