Commonly Abused Drugs Morphine by www.drug-rehabs.org
Drug-Rehabs.org Since 1998
Home
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Services
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Programs For Teens and Adolescents
Alcohol and Drug Rehab Centers For Men
Drug and Alcohol Treatment Programs For Women
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Programs for Seniors or Older Adults
Drug and Alcohol Detox Centers
Detox Treatment Using Buprenorphine/Suboxone
Detox Rehab Using Methadone
Inpatient Detox Programs
Inpatient Alcohol and Drug Rehab Centers
Long Term Drug and Alcohol Treatment Programs
Outpatient Drug and Alcohol Treatment Centers
Short Term Drug and Alcohol Treatment Facilities
Intensive Outpatient Facilities
Partial Hospitalization/Day Treatment Programs
Inpatient Hospital Programs
Outpatient Detox Programs
12 Step Programs
Halfway Housing
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Special Services
Drug and Alcohol Assessment Programs
Programs that offer Drug Education and Prevention
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Programs for Women that are Pregnant
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Centers for Spanish-Speaking Clients
Alcohol and Drug Treatment Centers for Native Americans
Programs that offer Drug and Alcohol Testing
Alcohol and Drug Treatment Programs for Military Members
Alcohol and Drug Treatment Centers for Clients with Children
Dual Diagnosis Alcohol and Drug Treatment Facilities
Drug and Alcohol Treatment Programs for Co-Occurring Disorders
Alcohol and Drug Rehab Facilities for Clients with HIV/AIDS
Alcohol and Drug Rehab Programs For The Hearing Impaired
Alcohol and Drug Rehab Centers for LGBTs
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Payment Methods
Alcohol and Drug Rehab Facilities That Accept United Behavioral Health
Drug and Alcohol Treatment Programs That Accept United Health Care
Drug and Alcohol Treatment Centers That Accept Blue Cross Blue Shield
Drug and Alcohol Treatment Facilities That Accept Cigna
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Programs That Accept Aetna
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Centers That Accept Humana
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Facilities That Accept Private Insurance
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Programs That Accept Medicaid
Alcohol and Drug Treatment Centers That Are Private Pay
Alcohol and Drug Treatment Rehabs That Accept State Financed Health Insurance Plan Other Than Medicaid
Alcohol and Drug Rehab Programs That Accept Medicare
Alcohol and Drug Rehab Centers That Accept State Welfare or Child And Family Services Funds
Alcohol and Drug Rehab Facilities That Accept State Mental Health Agency Funds
Drug and Alcohol Treatment Programs That Offer Community Mental Health Block Grants
Drug and Alcohol Treatment Centers That Offer Community Service Block Grants
Drug and Alcohol Treatment Facilities That Accept Military Insurance (Tricare)
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Programs That Accept State Corrections Or Juvenile Justice Funds
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Centers That Accept County or Local Government Funds
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Facilities That Accept Access To Recovery (ATR) Voucher
Alcohol and Drug Treatment Programs That Accept US Department of VA Funds
Free or Low Cost Alcohol and Drug Treatment Centers (Sliding Scale/Payment Assistance)
Drug-Rehabs.org Since 1998 A Non-Profit Social Betterment Organization
Preventing Drug Abuse In Communities Across America Through Our Effective Drug Education Programs. Helping People And Families Afflicted With Addiction Find The Help That They Need And Deserve.
Get Help. Find a Rehab Center Today.1-877-882-9275(Tap to Call)
Have Questions?
1-877-882-9275
We Have Answers!
Get Help - Find a Rehab Center Today
For help finding an addiction treatment center, Call us!
All calls are 100% confidential and free
1-877-882-9275
100% Confidential Help Request
Contact us now to get immediate help: 1-877-882-9275
Share:
Article Summary
Understanding Morphine
Morphine Uses
Morphine Effects
Morphine Side Effects
Morphine Addictive Qualities
Morphine Overdose
Morphine Withdrawal
Morphine Dangers
Signs And Symptoms Of Morphine Abuse
Treatment For Morphine Addiction
A Guide To Morphine Addiction
Morphine is closely related to ocyContin, Percocet, Dilaudid, Methadone and other opiate painkillers also used in treating moderate to severe pain. Morphine can be highly addictive. Whether you use it according to your doctor's recommendations or abuse it, this drug can quickly lead to tolerance, dependence, and addiction.
Since it is an opiate, your body will quickly become used to the presence of this drug. The NPF (National Pain Foundation) found that the average person will become used to these types of substances within the first fortnight of use. At this point, your cravings can cause you to continue using morphine.
Read on to learn more about this substance:
Understanding Morphine
As a classic opiate painkiller, morphine is the standard against which most of the other opiates are typically measured. While these other opiates are the drug of choice for many addicts, morphine (in liquid or pill form) is also sought after to satisfy cravings.
This powerful narcotic opioid substance is derived from the opium (poppy) plant. According to GINAD (the Global Information Network about Drugs), morphine is one of the most potent opiates in existence.
However, since it is effective as a painkiller, it is widely manufactured and sold in injectable, suppository, capsule, tablet, and liquid forms. Still, the DEA (Drug Enforcement Administration) has classified it as a Schedule II Controlled Substance. This means that it has one of the highest regulations for a medically used drug - an indication of its extreme diversion, abuse, and addictive potential.
That said, the drug is also sold under a variety of brand names, including but not limited to:
Avinza
Kadian
MS Contin
Oramorph
Morphine is also referred to by the following street names:
Auntie Em
Blue
Dreamer
Emma
Emsel
First Line
God's Drug
Goodfella
Mister Blue
Monkey
Morf
Morpho
Murder 8
S.
Tango and Cash
TNT
Unkie
White Stuff
In some cases, addicts might use morphine in place of heroin. According to NSDUH (the National Survey on Drug Use and Health), over 4 million people in the US abused prescription painkillers in 2014. In the same year, more than 2 million people met the medical diagnostic criteria for substance abuse disorders involving medications like morphine.
Morphine Uses
Since it is a narcotic painkiller, morphine is typically used in the management of moderate to severe pain. The drug will alter your body's perception of pain. It does this by binding itself to the brain's opiate receptors.
However, the medication also works in the central nervous system and the brain by causing feelings of intense euphoria along with mood changes, lightheadedness, and even dizziness.
In the process, it alters how your body perceives pain. This is why doctors will often prescribe morphine as a last resort against the pain that they view to be unmanageable or extreme.
The drug is administered in the form of pills or as an injection. Since morphine is so addictive, you need to be careful about using it. Repeated use, to this end, might cause you to become physically and psychologically dependent on it.
Morphine Effects
In the short term, morphine has the effect of reducing pain in the body whether such pain is caused by broken bones or arthritis. You should only use it according to your doctor's prescription because abusing this drug might lead to adverse effects.
Prolonged use and abuse, for instance, causes various negative effects apart from addiction. For instance, morphine might damage your veins at the point of administration. Alternatively, it will cause such mood disorders as depression.
Other long term effects of using and abusing morphine might include:
1. Health Effects
Alternating periods of unconsciousness and alertness
Blue tinge to the skin
Circulation problems
Circulatory inflammation
Collapsed veins
Constipation
Dehydration
Difficulty breathing
Difficulty swallowing
Difficulty urinating
Dizziness
Dry mouth
Fainting
Hallucinations
Headache
Increased risk of such blood-borne diseases as HIV and hepatitis B among intravenous users
Inhibited cough reflex that might cause choking
Loss of appetite
Low blood pressure
Nausea
Rashes
Reduced sex drive
Respiratory distress
Seizures
Sleep apnea
Weakened immune system
2. Social and Mental Effects
Changing acquaintances and friends
Harming yourself or faking injuries to get a doctor to prescribe morphine
Inability to concentrate
Needle marks
Poor hygiene
Spending excess time and money to procure the drug
Stealing to support the habit
Withdrawing from family and friends
If you start experiencing any of the effects above due to your morphine use, seek medical attention immediately.
Morphine Side Effects
The short term effects of using morphine vary based on the way the drug is administered and how much you take. However, most side effects are likely to occur within 15 to 60 minutes and might last for 4 to 6 hours.
That said, abusing morphine causes the following side effects:
Confusion
Cyanosis (blue tint to fingernails and lips)
Death and coma in case you overdose on the substance
Difficulty breathing (or complete inability to breathe)
Dizziness
Dry mouth
Extreme drowsiness
Gastrointestinal disturbances
Itchy skin
Lightheadedness
Loss of consciousness
Lowered blood pressure
Nausea
Pinpoint pupils
Poor circulation
Vomiting
Weak pulse
Weakness
Morphine Addictive Qualities
Morphine is one of the most addictive of substances. Its potential for addiction is based on its chemical composition and properties, which make it a heavily regulated Schedule II controlled substance.
In fact, this drug has a similar potential for abuse as other opioid and opiate substances, including oxycodone, methadone, and opium. Since it causes strong effects on the brain and the central nervous system, you might end up abusing it frequently in a bid to get high. This is one of the reasons why most addicts get it either through a doctor's prescription or in the black market.
More specifically, using this drug can create intense euphoric feelings and reduced tension. When you use in the long term, your body will develop tolerance to the substance and may compel you to continue abusing it.
Similarly, you may develop reinforcing brain patterns, which can cause you to start obsessing over the drug and the effects it creates. In turn, this may compel you to seek it out almost compulsively.
Like any other prescription opiate, morphine eventually leads to abuse, tolerance, and dependence. This is even if you started taking the drug for legitimate medical reasons and according to a doctor's prescription.
However, when you misuse morphine by taking it in excess doses, or if you combine it with alcohol, prescription drugs, or street drugs, you could suffer serious health consequences. Such abuse could also prove to be fatal and deadly.
Physical dependence will occur when you get to a point where your body cannot function normally if you haven't taken morphine. In this case, your body will start changing its definition of pain.
Psychological dependency, on the other hand, will cause you to start thinking that you need a dose of the drug to function properly, even when your body does not need any extra morphine. Such dependency might cause panic symptoms if you do not get a dose. At this point, you will be addicted to the drug.
Morphine Overdose
Ignoring any of the severe signs and symptoms of a morphine overdose could threaten your life or that of the person overdosing on the drug. These symptoms include:
Absence of muscle tone
Appearing conscious but being unable to speak
Blue/purple hue on the lips and fingertips
Blurry vision
Clammy or cold feel to the skin
Coma
Complaining of extreme itching
Constricted or pinpoint pupils
Having a pale complexion
Incessant scratching
Limp muscles
Limpness
Looking gray (people with darker complexions) or blue (those with paler or fairer complexions)
Loss of consciousness
Markedly slowed breathing
Nausea
Respiratory issues leading to incessant gurgling or choking
Sedation, or extreme lethargy resembling the comatose or unconscious state
Severe constipation
Severe sleepiness
Severely irregular or slowed breathing
Slow heartbeat
Slurred speech
Small/constricted pupils
Vomiting
In case of an overdose, you should seek medical assistance immediately. In these situations, you should:
Not give the person anything that would make them vomit
Perform mouth-to-mouth resuscitation in case the patient stops breathing
Morphine Withdrawal
Withdrawing from opioids like morphine is somewhat similar to having the bad flu. These symptoms might be quite severe, often it may be advised that you do not stop taking the drug suddenly or without medical aid. They include:
Backache
Chills
Diarrhea
Dilated pupils
High blood pressure
Irritability
Muscle aches
Rapid heart rate
Restlessness
Runny nose
Stomach cramps
Sweating
Tearing eyes
Trouble sleeping
Vomiting
Morphine Dangers
When administered intravenously, morphine can inadvertently cause a variety of life-long diseases, such as HIV/AIDs and hepatitis. However, the greatest danger arising from using and abusing this medication comes in the form of an overdose. Since it is a potent depressant, this drug works on the central nervous system and might slow your breathing to the point where you are comatose, or you die.
In fact, the rise of morphine abuse, addiction, and overdose in the US is at such a point that recent CDCP (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) reports show that the rate of overdoses has gone up by close to 200% since 2000.
In 2014, the same study found that the rate of overdose death arising from semi-synthetic and natural opioids like hydrocodone, oxycodone, and morphine was 3.8 for every 100,000.
On the other hand, expectant women who use this drug might give birth to a baby who is addicted to it. These babies are likely to display the following withdrawal symptoms:
Being inconsolable
Constant irritability
Experience difficulties gaining weight and growing due to vomiting and diarrhea
Have an unusually high pitched cry
Highly active
Poor sleep
Running fevers
Shake with tremors
Trouble breathing especially right after birth
Signs And Symptoms Of Morphine Abuse
If you use or abuse morphine, you are highly likely to indicate the following signs and symptoms:
1. Physical Symptoms
Constipation
Constipation
Decrease in metabolism
Dilated pupils
Drastic body weight changes
Forced or heavy breathing
Impaired coordination
Impaired muscle coordination
Kidney failure
Low blood pressure
Nausea
Physical weakness
Rashes on certain body parts
Respiratory difficulties
Restlessness
Sinking into deep states of false happiness and bliss
Stomach cramps
Unexplained euphoria
Vomiting
2. Behavioral Symptoms
Change of interest
Combining the morphine prescription with alcohol
Constant complaints of illness or tiredness
Constantly talking about quitting but never following through
Covertly using the drug while hiding
Crushing the pills and injecting or snorting the resulting powder
Doctor shopping
Dramatic changes in priorities
Euphoria
General lack of will power
General lethargy
Hiding the drug in many places around the home
Increased aggression that is often inexplicable
Irregular and acute depression
Job loss
Less importance to neatness and grooming
Loneliness
Lying about the number of pills taken
Lying or stealing to obtain more of the drug
Marked irritation over small changes in the environment
Perceptive isolation
Personality changes
Poor mental performance
Purchasing more of the drug than was prescribed
Running out of the morphine prescription long before a refill is due
Sudden change in friendships
Sudden introversion or shyness
3. Psychological Symptoms
Continued abuse of the drug irrespective of the negative effects it causes
Euphoria
Going into depression when the drug is discontinued
Impaired mental performance
Inability to control drug use
Inability to pay close attention to your surroundings
Neglecting other aspects of your life
Poor judgment
Preoccupation with morphine
Treatment For Morphine Addiction
It is highly advisable that you seek treatment in case you observe any of the above signs and symptoms of morphine addiction. For the first phase of your treatment, you may want to check into an inpatient rehabilitation facility for detoxification to get rid of your withdrawal symptoms.
During treatment, you are highly likely to be placed under constant medical supervision to increase your chances of success. At an inpatient facility, you will receive round the clock supervision.
However, you might also opt for an outpatient program, although the chance of a relapse might be higher with such options. Still, this might prove to be the right solution especially if you need the help of your family and loved ones as you battle morphine addiction.
Overall, you do not have to suffer through your dependency. Get treatment as early as possible to ensure you continue with your normal life as it used to be before you started using and abusing morphine.
1-877-882-9275
Drug Rehabs by State:
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Other Drug and Alcohol Rehab Services:
Drug and Alcohol Hospital Services
Inpatient Hospital Programs Hospital Inpatient Detoxification Programs General Hospital (including VA Hospitals) Partial Hospitalization/Day Treatment Programs
Drug and Alcohol Counseling Services
Rehab Programs That Offer Group Counseling Treatment Programs That Offer Individual Counseling Rehab Centers That Offer Family Counseling Treatment Centers That Offer Marital/Couples Counseling Rehab Facilities That Offer Substance Abuse Counseling approach Treatment Facilities That Offer Trauma-related Counseling Drug and Alcohol Rehabs That Offer Diet and Exercise Counseling
Drug and Alcohol Programs By Treatment Of Specific Drugs
Alcohol Rehab Facilities Heroin Rehab Centers Cocaine Treatment Programs OxyContin Rehab Centers Meth Rehab Facilities Crack Treatment Facilities Adderall Rehabilitation Centers Benzodiazepines Treatment Programs Xanax Rehab Centers Prescription Drug Rehab Facilities Codeine Treatment Programs Fentanyl Rehab Facilities Hydrocodone Treatment Centers Percocet Rehab Programs Vicodin Treatment Facilities Ecstasy Treatment Programs Valium Rehab Centers Ritalin Treatment Centers Morphine Rehab Centers Roxycodone Treatment Centers Ambien Treatment Facilities Opioid Rehab Programs
If you don't know what to do,
Call to speak with a Certified Drug and Alcohol Counselor.
All calls are strictly confidential
One of our counselors will do a full screening assessment and help you find a treatment facility that fits your specific needs. Counselor screening assessment services are free of charge. You don't have to continue suffering with drug and alcohol addiction, help is a phone call away.
1-877-882-9275
Organizations We Support
1-877-882-9275
About
Home
About Us
Our Experts
Terms of Service
Resources
Parent Help Center
Kids Talk About Drug Education
Participate
Weekly Public Forum
Surveys
Join Us
Become a Drug Education Lecturer
Submit your facility
Treatment Center Admittance Policy
GENERAL DISCLAIMER: The main purpose of Drug-Rehabs.org is to provide educational services. As such, it is not meant to provide any medical advice. You should, therefore, not use any of the information that you find on Drug-Rehabs.org to diagnose health problems and diseases. This information doesn't substitute or replace the professional care that you might receive. If you suspect that you have a health problem, therefore, you should get in touch with a healthcare provider. Additionally, the authors, editors, sponsors, contributors, and producers of Drug-Rehabs.org do not have any obligation or responsibility to anyone (entity or person) for any harmful consequences that might arise - either indirectly or directly - from the information or content that you find in Drug-Rehabs.org. If you have any medical emergency, we advise that you call 911 immediately.
© Copyright 1998 - 2018 All Rights Reserved. Content is protected under copyright laws, do not use content without written permission.