Fruits diabetics can eat and love
Contact Form
First Name*
Last Name*
Email*
Phone
Message*
A Family Healing Center, PC
http://www.afamilyhealingcenter.com
Portland Clinic
2525 NW Lovejoy St. Suite 208
Portland, Oregon 97210
PH. 503 241 5007
McMinnville Clinic
330 SE Baker Street
McMinnville, Oregon 97128
PH. 503 883 0333
About
Private Practice
Books
Recipes
Blog
Contact
Cart
Fruits Diabetics can Eat and Love
Diabetes has become a rather large epidemic in the United States and worldwide. And it is a disease that has mostly been self inflicted by our dietary and lifestyle habits. According to the World Health Organization, diabetes affects 340 million people worldwide. Type 1 diabetes (also known as insulin-dependent, juvenile or childhood-onset) is characterized by deficient insulin production and requires daily administration of insulin. The cause of type 1 diabetes is not known and it is not preventable with current knowledge. Type 2 diabetes (also known as non-insulin dependent or adult-onset) comes from the body’s inability to utilize its insulin efficiently. Type 2 diabetes comprises 90 % of the people who have diabetes worldwide.
The complications of diabetes and long term health risks are significant such as loss of limb(s), loss of eyesight, diabetic dementia, increased risk for heart disease, and kidney failure. People who are diabetic have a 50 % more likelihood of dying from heart disease and/or stroke. Heart disease is the number one most significant fatal illness in the United States.
Because Type 2 Diabetes is significantly preventable, it is significantly easy to treat in early stages merely by dietary and lifestyle changes in addition to dietary supplements. Diabetes is only treatable when a patient is highly invested and dedicated.
Sugar is bad for diabetes, simple as that. All diabetics should be avoiding sugar, process foods, processed meats and fats, sugar containing drinks such as soda and juice, dried fruits, alcohol, pastries, baked goods, and all other sugar containing items that I forgot to mention.
The good news is that a recent study revealed that there are some fruits that are “good” for diabetics. According to an article published online for the British Medical journal, the consumption of some whole fruits can reduce the risk for diabetes. The article also stated that juice may increase the risk for diabetes.
Three servings per week of any of the following fruits was associated with a decreased risk for diabetes.
blueberries
grapes and raisins
apples and pears
bananas
grapefruit
The study also revealed that higher intake of juice and cantaloupe increased the risk for type 2 diabetes. There were some limitations of the study but I thought it worthy to write about due to the increase in prevalence diabetes is throughout the United States and especially in my practice.
Of the fruits above, I would stick to apples, blueberries, grapes, and grapefruit. I don’t agree with the raisins, therefore I would suggest diabetes or people with pre-diabetes stick to whole fruits and not dried fruits as the concentration of the sugar overwhelms the insulin system within the body.
Suggestions for Diabetics or Pre-diabetics:
Avoid all dried fruit
Consume whole fruits weekly
Consume whole vegetables daily
Consume some whole grains daily to weekly; soaking grains can help with the digestion of grains
Avoid all processed foods
Avoid all fast food
Do not drink juice, alcohol, or any other sweetened beverage
Avoid all sugar including pastries, cakes, cookies, etc…
No not consume or use artificial sweeteners; use a small amount of honey or stevia instead
Exercise daily
Drink at least 72 – 80 ounces of filtered water daily
16 116 October, 2013
Nutrition
One Comment
Jane
July 8, 2014 at 5:53 pm
I am a life and wellness coach and myself have multiple food sensitivities, plus hypoglycemia. I have read your anti-inflammatory diet book and found it very helpful. I am wondering about the sweeteners you mention in the book as acceptable . Brown rice syrup, honey, maple syrup.. How much is allowed on the diet? I am concerned about sugars…this will help me and my clients. Thank you.
Reply
Leave a Comment
Click here to cancel reply.
Submit
ABOUT
Dr. Black thinks differently than any other physician you'll come in contact with. When thinking about health, sometimes you have to take huge steps backwards to figure out what caused the problem that is bothering you today and work to reverse the disease process. These blogs are meant to bring you articles that are outside-the-box! Offering cutting edge information about health, food choices, cooking tips, important lifestyle choices, and more.
SORT BY CATEGORY
Prevention
Men's Health
Chronic Pain Management
Weight Loss
Cancer
Migraine
Headaches
Vitamins
Technology
Value-Based Medicine
Diabetes
Emotional Health
Dietary Issues
Allergies
Asthma
Chronotherapy
Circadian Rhythm
Magnesium
Cellular Health
Metabolism
Dieting
Healthy Eating
Naturopathic Education
Children's Health
Hormones
Stem Cells
Neural Therapy
Health Insurance
Zika Virus
Lifestyle
Health
Naturopathy
Mental Health
Pediatric Wellness
Wellness
Exercise
Family
Nutrition
Women's Health
BOOKS
The Freedom Diet
The Freedom Diet is a 60-day plan including dietary and lifestyle changes along with supportive supplement suggestions. The plan was originally designed for making significant shifts in blood sugar levels for diabetics. By using it on thousands of patients, Dr. Jessica Black discovered its benefits […]
More Anti-Inflammation Diet Tips and Recipes (Spiral)
After the success of her first book, Dr. Black follows up with even more information, recipes, and tips to minimize or prevent inflammation by changing your diet. As stress and emotional issues are connected to inflammation, she encourages people to adopt an Anti-Inflammatory Lifestyle (AIL) that includes exercise and lifestyle suggestions. Order your SIGNED copy today!
The Anti-Inflammation Diet and Recipe Book (Spiral)
The connection between inflammation and heart disease, arthritis, and other chronic ailments has become increasingly clear to doctors around the country and even the world. Based on her naturopathic practice, Jessica Black has devised a complete program for how to eat and cook to minimize and even prevent inflammation and its consequences. Order your SIGNED copy today!
RECENT RECIPES
Banana Arugula Breakfast Smoothie
This is a very easy and very quick breakfast to make before you dash out the door. You can experiment by adding your favorite seeds to this recipe as well for added protein. You can switch out the kinds of greens you use and the […]
Fresh Sliced Golden Beets with Lemon
I have met many people who have never eaten fresh sliced golden beets. You may not have thought about eating beets raw but think again! These sliced beets make a healthy, simple, easy-to-prepare, and delicious snack. Bring these beets with you on the go.
Mexican Quinoa Dinner
Improving your vegetable and healthy protein intake can improve how you feel. Mexican Quinoa dinner is a simple and easy dish to put together. For this recipe, keeping some of the vegetable ingredients out and consuming them raw helps increase the nutrient content of your […]
Sign up to join our
Newsletter Mailing List
Navigate The Site
Home
About
Private Practice
Books
Products
Recipes
Blog
Contact
Get In Touch
Got questions or would like more information? Feel free use the contact page and send me an email; otherwise reach out to one of our Family Healing Center's and take control of your health today.
A Family Healing Center
http://www.afamilyhealingcenter.com/
[email protected]
Portland Clinic
2525 NW Lovejoy St, Suite 208
Portland, OR 97210
503 241 5007
971 254 4564
McMinnville Clinic
829 NE HWY 99 W
McMinnville, OR 97128
503 883 0333
503 857 0622
Meet Dr. Black
Cooking and Caring for Others
I blossomed in college, receiving a liberal arts degree and a scholarship to be a chemistry major and biology minor-pre-medicine.
I had always wanted to be a doctor as a child. Sure, it switched to wanting to be a veterinarian or others, but it always came back to wanting to be a doctor...
Read more
A Family Healing Center
Private Practice
At A Family Healing Center, all of our doctors will approach your health condition uniquely and individually.
We believe that illness does not arise randomly in the body. Every chronic illness or disease stems from more fundamental underlying causes...
Read more
Join The Conversation
"Understanding the Restrictive Clause of Health Insurance" https://t.co/TWoSZv6jIs on @LinkedIn, Jul 27
"The Relationship Between Sugar, Calories, and Health" https://t.co/HpypYBCANd on @LinkedIn, Jul 27
"The Link Between Cancer and Lifestyle Choices" https://t.co/Y7eDmFORa7 on @LinkedIn, Jul 20
"Naturopathy: Why Fight It if It Works for Some?" https://t.co/65Xi3Xkge8 on @LinkedIn, Jul 20
"Intake and Outflow: How They Affect Hormone Balance" https://t.co/kOze6HfaLD on @LinkedIn, Jul 13
"Could Migraines in Children Be a Vitamin Problem? " https://t.co/WFrBdyWddK on @LinkedIn, Jul 13
"Connecticut Poised to Expand Scope of Practice for Naturopathy" https://t.co/ugVUF4Xw28 on @LinkedIn, Jul 07
"Canned Fruits and Vegetables Can Be a Good Source of Nutrients" https://t.co/k3PIvfS5Y5 on @LinkedIn, Jul 07
Follow Along
© Copyright 2019 Dr. Jessica Black. All Rights Reserved.