Could Wi-Fi be Harmful to Health? » Internet Speed Test
Skip to content
App
Blog
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Search for: X
Internet Speed Test
Test your broadband internet speed for free!
App
Blog
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Could Wi-Fi be Harmful to Health?
Home
Blog
Could Wi-Fi be Harmful to Health?
July 2, 2018 November 21, 2018 MarkBlogWiFi0 Comments
It’s a question that is inevitably asked of every piece of technology the more common it becomes: is this safe? From cellphones to microwaves, new technology always comes with a helping of health concerns when they become commonplace, and Wi-Fi is no different. Although the transmission frequencies used to connect with Wi-Fi are generally thought to be harmless to humans, a new study calls this into question.
In the past, studies by scientists in the Netherlands seemed to point to the fact that Wi-Fi signals could be harmful to plant life in the long run, but it was not suggested that the connection had a detrimental effect on human health. However, one group in New Zealand is now claiming that our connection addiction is more harmful than we had previously assumed.
According to a report by Safe Wireless Technology New Zealand (SWTNZ), research has confirmed that Wi-Fi connections may indeed have some negative health events owing to electromagnetic radiation. This research has not been confirmed by any further resources, but SWTNZ believes that prolonged exposure to Wi-Fi may increase headaches, nausea and perhaps even cancer.
The chairman of SWTNZ, Greg Kasper, said that the harmful effects of wireless connectivity can be proved by legitimate scientific evidence and that New Zealand’s government should be acting to learn more. Around the world, several governments are looking into the potential health effects of Wi-Fi technology.
Post navigation
Web Creator Tim Berners-Lee Warns about Internet Surveillance
Is Your Phone Slowing Down Your Internet Connection?
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Internet Speed Test App
Boost Your PC Speed
Make Your Mac Faster
Our Articles
Broadband Connection Cars Free Online Speed Tests Gaming Internet Speed Terms Mobile Data Online Security PC Performance SEO Technology News Tips WiFi Windows Optimization
Copyright © All rights reserved.
Surya Chandra Lite by WEN Themes