Is Morphine an Opiate on a Drug Test? | The Recovery Village
Contact Us
Insurance
Admissions
Teen Addiction
Search
352.771.2700 Recovery Is Possible
Drug Addiction
Drug Addiction Overview
Commonly Abused Drugs
Alcohol
Cocaine
Heroin
Marijuana
Meth
Xanax
Stimulants
Adderall
Amphetamines
Bath Salts
Crack
Ecstasy, MDMA
Spice, K2
Opioid/Opiates
Codeine
Fentanyl
OxyContin
Hydrocodone
Dilaudid
Lortab
Kratom
Morphine
Oxycodone
Vicodin
Benzodiazepines
Ativan
Klonopin
Valium
Librium
Prescription Drugs
Percocet
Methadone
Ambien
Tramadol
Suboxone
Subutex
Narcan
Ultram
Fioricet
Trazodone
Drug Index
Ayahuasca
CBD (Cannabidiol)
Kava
Peyote
Dealing With the Issues of a High-Functioning Alcoholic
Can You Become Addicted to Heroin the First Time?
Drug Abuse Hotline
Alcohol Hotline
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Mental Health
Anxiety Disorders
Anxiety
Generalized Anxiety
Panic Disorder
Social Anxiety
Personality Disorders
Antisocial PD
Borderline PD
Dissociative Identity Disorder
Histrionic PD
Schizoid PD
Stress Related Disorders
Adjustment Disorder
PTSD
Eating Disorders
Anorexia
Binge Eating
Bulimia
Restrictive Food Intake
Depression & Mood Disorders
Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Major Depressive Disorder
Postpartum Depression
Obsessive Compulsive Disorders
Body Dysmorphia
Gender Dysphoria
Impulse Control Disorder
OCD
Other Mental Health Issues
ADHD/ADD
Phobias
Psychosis
Schizophrenia
Sleep Disorders
Common Co-Occurring Disorders
Process Addictions
Anxiety and Substance Abuse
Borderline PD and Drug Abuse
Depression and Drug Abuse
Panic Disorder and Drug Abuse
PTSD and Substance Abuse
Schizophrenia and Drug Abuse
Mental Health First Aid
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Addiction Treatment
Drug Addiction Treatment
Alcoholism Treatment
Medical Detox
Medication-Assisted Treatment
Inpatient Rehab
Partial Hospitalization
Intensive Outpatient
Outpatient Rehab
Aftercare
Dual Diagnosis
Understanding Treatment
Our Treatment Philosophy
Drug Rehab
Drug Detox
Intervention
Friends & Family Portal
Treatment Therapies
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
Dialectical Behavioral Therapy
Individual/Group Therapy
Intensive Therapy
Substance Abuse Treatment Centers and Rehab
Substance Abuse Counseling
Mental Health/Dual Diagnosis
Treatments for Anxiety
Bipolar Treatments
Treatments for Schizophrenia
Depression Treatments
PTSD Treatments
10 Tips to Help Family Members of Those Struggling With Addiction Cope
10 Signs You Need To Seek Professional Help
Heroin Hotline
Marijuana Hotline
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Our Rehab Centers
Locations Overview
Nationwide Adult Rehab Centers
The Recovery Village Umatilla (FL)
Orlando Recovery Center (FL)
The Recovery Village at Palmer Lake (CO)
The Recovery Village Columbus (OH)
The Recovery Village Ridgefield (WA)
Specialty Rehab Centers
Next Generation Village (FL)
IAFF Recovery Center (MD)
Aftercare
Next Step Village (FL)
Treatment By State
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Resources
Sobriety Calculator
Friends and Family
Teen Addiction
College Students
LGBTQ+ Addiction
Active Duty Military
Military Veterans
Fitness & Nutrition
Spiritual Resources
Domestic Violence
Lawyers
Caregiver Resources
Cancer Patients
Elderly
Recovery Blog
Inside Addiction
Insurance
Contact Us
Admissions
Search
Don't wait another day. Help is a phone call away. 352.771.2700
close What To Expect
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns.
352.771.2700
Recovery Is Possible
Home Morphine Addiction Is Morphine an Opiate on a Drug Test?
Share1
Tweet
+1
Share
1 Shares
Is Morphine an Opiate on a Drug Test?
By The Recovery Village
Editor Camille Renzoni
Reviewer Sendra Yang
Updated on01/31/19
There is a painkiller still that is hundreds of years old. One that occurs naturally, gives rise to other medications and is used as the standard for pain relievers the world over. That medication is morphine. Each of these attributes necessitates further explanation, and so it is best to start from the beginning — the early 19th century, that is. Morphine traces its origins to the 1800s, but the compound itself was used long before — think thousands of years prior — by fledgling civilizations in the Eastern hemisphere. China, for example, has a long history of using morphine as it exists within plant matter.
This is the perfect segue into the next point: morphine is a natural substance. Morphine is the product of opium plants, more specifically, the poppy straw portion of the plants. Ancient cultures were unaware of morphine in its refined form, but they were still able to use it for various rudimentary medicinal purposes. It would take a German pharmacist to unlock the full therapeutic potential of opium’s biological makeup.
Friedrich Wilhelm Serturner isolated the pain-relieving qualities of morphine while circumventing the crippling addictions that plagued opium. However, this potential was not eliminated entirely and remains an issue facing American society in full force today. Hundreds of thousands of citizens are directly or indirectly impacted by this drug epidemic. Morphine contributes to the problem, but it is truly its prescription and illicit progeny that take the brunt of the blame. Morphine’s discovery quickly gave rise to the invention of other painkillers. Oxycodone, codeine, and hydrocodone can trace their chemical lineage to morphine, as can heroin. Collectively, these drugs are known as opioids.
Speak to a Morphine Intake Coordinator now.
352.771.2700What to expect when I call?
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7.
Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now.352.771.2700
Is Morphine an Opiate?
The answer to this question is simple: yes, morphine is an opiate. More so than that, it is the original opiate, the opiate that started it all.
What is an opiate exactly? Well, in the plainest of terms, it is a group of painkilling medications. To elaborate further, the compounds found within opiates bind to corresponding receptors found in the human central nervous system. From here, the drug can treat pain on a molecular level.
Many individuals make the assumption that opiates are the same thing as opioids. This is partially true. All opiates are opioids but the same cannot be said for all opioids being opiates. The reason for this lies within their unique chemistries.
Opioids are manufactured in laboratories with fully or semi-synthetic materials. In other words, they do not exist by themselves in nature. Examples of opioids include fentanyl, oxycodone, and hydrocodone. Opiates, as has been established with morphine, are natural in their origin — even if the final product is not, as is the case with heroin and codeine.
Both opioids and opiates have similar potential for dependence and substance use disorders. These maladies arise once a tolerance has built up and a patient or recreational user takes more of the drugs to achieve the same or heightened effects. This can lead to disastrous results in the long term, including adverse side effects or even overdoses.
Morphine side effects range from mild to severe and common to rare. The intensity, duration, and frequency are largely dependent on the individual’s usage habits and biology. Such reactions include:
Excessive tiredness and relaxation
Itchy or pus-filled hives
Nausea, vomiting, or dry heaving
Profuse sweating spells
Confusion
Constipation and irregular stool
Headaches
Amplified pressure in the neck area or throughout the skull
No desire to eat or drink
Spasms and convulsions
Abnormal vision
Dangerously low heart rate
Troubled breathing (collapsed lungs in the most severe scenarios)
Coma
Psychological disorders such as anxiety or depression
As mentioned, overdoses are serious hazards all their own, and these episodes come with symptoms, too. Signs of a morphine overdose can include:
Muscular weakness: extremities will go numb and the musculoskeletal system will lose its vigor.
Breathing abnormalities: the characteristic rhythmic rising and falling of the chest may be replaced with an irregular, ragged breathing pattern.
Eye issues: pinpoint pupils are a common occurrence, as are eyes that react sluggishly to stimuli.
Nausea: vomiting is perhaps the most recognizable (and stereotypical) symptom of opioid overdoses.
Cyanosis: this is simply a term to describe blue or purple colorations of lips and nails.
Fainting spells or full coma: victims may collapse and even enter a comatose state.
Is Morphine an Opiate on a Drug Test?
In nearly all drug tests that are currently administered, morphine will appear as an opiate or opioid. The medicine can last approximately four days in urine and upward of three months in hair follicles. Some drug tests are advanced enough to identify morphine itself directly from a lineup of other painkillers. This is particularly helpful with instances where an individual is on a morphine prescription and they need to prove it. If morphine tests positively as just an opiate, there is no context, meaning the results are lumped in with illicit opioids like heroin.
Are you looking for comprehensive drug or alcohol rehab for yourself or a loved one? Look no further than The Recovery Village. With facilities across the nation and a full array of treatment programs, this renowned center can help you or a loved one get started on the path to sobriety. To learn more about a program near you, call 352.771.2700 today.
Morphine Addiction
Signs, Symptoms & Side Effects
Withdrawal & Detox
Morphine Addiction Treatment & Rehab
Have more questions about Morphine abuse?
Q.
How Long Does Morphine Stay in Your System?
Q.
How Do I Know If Someone Is On Morphine?
Q.
Is Morphine an Opiate?
Q.
How Long Does 30-mg Morphine Stay in Your System?
Read the most frequently asked questions
See also
Morphine Hotline
Morphine Overdose
IV Morphine Dose for Pain
Morphine Medicine Side Effects
Morphine Pill Dosage and High
See more topics
What is National Take Back Day?
April 19, 2019
Search
Speak to a Morphine Intake Coordinator now.
352.771.2700What to expect when I call?
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7.
Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now.352.771.2700
Is Morphine an Opiate on a Drug Test?
5 (100%) 1 vote
Share1
Tweet
+1
Share
1 Shares
Latest Related Posts:
Morphine Abuse: Signs, Symptoms & Side Effects
Morphine Addiction Treatment & Rehab
Morphine Withdrawal & Detox
Morphine Addiction Related Topics
Morphine Addiction FAQ
How Do I Know If Someone Is On Morphine?
Morphine Hotline
Morphine Overdose
Ready to start? We're here for you.
352.771.2700
The Recovery Village
633 Umatilla Blvd. Umatilla, FL 32784
(352) 771-2700
About Us
About
Our Team
Philosophy
Careers
Get Started
Admissions
Insurance
Locations
Contact Us
Legal
Notice Of Privacy Practices
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
© The Recovery Village at Umatilla All Rights Reserved.