Fruits: Making the bad good, and the good better! - cloudchowk
Home
Products
LIMS
Zureka
About
Blog
Contact
Home
Products
LIMS
Zureka
About
Blog
Contact
Blog
Home»General»Fruits: Making the bad good, and the good better!
Fruits: Making the bad good, and the good better!
Posted on September 1, 2013
By cloudchowk
In General
No comment
We all know that fruits are healthy.
The questions that elude some of us however relate to just how healthy fruits are, which fruits are healthy and whether fruits in all forms are healthy. Experts including a team from Harvard School of Public Health in the US examined whether certain fruits impact the risk of Type 2 Diabetes in people, which is the brand of the disease that more than 90% of Diabetes patients suffer from. According to their research, eating more fruit, particularly apples, grapes, and blueberries is said to lower the risk of the same significantly. The findings are based on a longitudinal study, which is a correlational observational research study that involves repeated observations of the same variables over long periods of time — often many decades.
Food questionnaires were used every four years to assess diet and asked how often, on average, people consumed each food in a standard portion size. It is just as essential to know that fruit is healthy as it to remember to steer clear of sugary fruit juice. The positive impact of eating three servings of peaches, plums, apricots, prunes, and oranges became significant compared with the same amount of fruit juice per week. Unlike type 1 – where the body produces no insulin – whether you get Type 2 diabetes or not can greatly depend on how healthy your lifestyle is. Each additional three servings per week of whole fruit is associated with a significant 2% lower odds of Type 2 Diabetes incidence after adjustment for other dietary, lifestyle, and personal risk factors. People who replaced all fruit juice with eating whole fruits can expect a 7% drop in their risk of developing Type 2 diabetes. The advantage was greatest with blueberries, at 26% lower odds per three servings a week. But the same amount of fruit juice correlated with a significant 8% elevated risk of developing diabetes, while those servings of cantaloupe were linked with 10% higher risk. Those eating grapes and raisins had a 12% reduced risk and apples and pears cut the chances by 7%. Prunes also had a protective effect, giving an 11% drop in the risk of developing Type 2 diabetes.
Many of us include fruits as a part of our diet but are inclined to abandon this practice if we “are not in the mood” or “find something tastier to eat”. Especially in teenagers and young adults, these habits are hard to maintain since coping with busy lifestyles leaves little time to eat right. The best way to reverse this is to surround yourself with fruit and less unhealthy things so that, in effect, you begin to have lesser and lesser distractions from the right kind of food. Like all habits however, they are most effectively sustained if started young. Another important factor in making fruits a larger part of our diet is to have them fresh.
After all, the only thing worse than no food in the fridge is food that’s gone bad!
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Related
Post Tags - benefits, cloudchowk, fruits
Written by cloudchowk
cloudchowk is a healthcare software company based out of Delhi. Its software help medical labs, clinics and patients share information and collaborate seamlessly.
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
←
→
Search
Recent Posts
The Seven Health Habits of Highly Effective People
What is Preventive Health Check-up?
Busting These Health Related Myths
Why You Should Quit Smoking and Simple Ways to do it
How To Take Care Of Your Skin This Winter?
Recent Comments
Sajat Jain on A new look, a new cloudchowk
Niyam on A new look, a new cloudchowk
Archives
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
January 2015
December 2014
September 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
Categories
General
Health checkup
Health Tips
LIMS
Path Labs
Uncategorized
About cloudchowk
We believe healthcare information is equally crucial for both medical facilities and patients. At cloudchowk, our mission is to work towards betterment of the industry by creating premium software solutions for path labs and other healthcare facilities.
Recent Posts
The Seven Health Habits of Highly Effective People
What is Preventive Health Check-up?
Busting These Health Related Myths
Address
D-1 Second Floor, Defence Colony, New Delhi – 110024
+91 11 24652207
hello@cloudchowk.com
www.cloudchowk.com
Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy | Sitemap | 2016 cloudchowk All Rights Reserved