Symptoms Of Mouth Herpes - The Body
Skip to main content
Skip page links.
TOPICS IN HIV/AIDS
Ask The Experts
Search
Search
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Newsletters
Search
Search
THEBODY.COM
What's New Newsletters Android/iPhone App My Health Tracker Personal Reminder Service HIV Care Professionals The Body en Espanol ASOFinder.com
Ask The Experts
TOPICS IN HIV/AIDS
Treatment
HIV Medications
Hepatitis C Coinfection
GI Issues
Other Side Effects & Coinfections
Drug Resistance
Switching & Stopping Treatment
Pediatric HIV Treatment
Prevention
HIV/AIDS Basics
HIV Prevention
HIV Testing
Safer Sex
Other Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Myths About HIV/AIDS
History of the AIDS Epidemic
Immune System Basics
Helping Friends With HIV/AIDS
Living With HIV
Getting Good Care
Healthy Living With HIV
Arts, Media & HIV/AIDS
Diet, Nutrition & HIV/AIDS
HIV Stigma
Relationships, Sexuality & HIV/AIDS
Vitamins, Minerals & Supplements
HIV and Financial Issues
HIV and Legal Issues
Personal Stories
HIV Blog Central
Stories About Men
Stories About Women
Stories About Transgender People
Stories About Young People
Stories About Older People
Stories About Families and Loved Ones
RESOURCE CENTERS
African Americans
Aging
Gay Men
Latinos
Women
Newly Diagnosed
Starting Treatment
Keeping Up With Your HIV Meds
Symptoms Of Mouth Herpes
Here's a taste of what TheBody.com has to offer on this topic:
Get the Facts
Herpes Simplex (Cold Sores and Genital Herpes)
...This is called "latency." However, it can become active again with no warning. Herpes can be active without symptoms or visible signs. Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV1) is the common cause of cold sores (oral herpes) around the mouth. HSV2 normally causes genital herpes. However, through sexual activity, HSV1 can cause infections in the genital area, and HSV2 can infect the mouth area. HSV is a very common disease. Approximately 45 million people...
Read more »
Ask the Experts
Herpes Simplex in corners of mouth
I have been positive for 5 years and not on meds yet. For the past six months I have developed cold sores at the inside corners of the mouth. The severity seems to fluctuate and is very irritating as the skin cracks and sometimes bleeds. I have...
Response from Judith Feinberg, M.D.
University of Cincinnati, College of Medicine
...First of all, are you certain that what you have is herpes? Often, the same symptom of sores and crackingat the corners of the mouth ("angular cheilitis" in medical terminology) can be due to candida (yeast). If your symptoms are due to... Read more »
Herpes on the roof of the mouth?
I am HIV since 1988. I was diagnosed with AIDS in 1996. My viral load is currently detectable at around 1000 copies and my tcells are about 295. Within the last six months I have had four times now, blisters on the roof of my mouth. They always...
Response from Katherine Luzuriaga, M.D.
University of Massachusetts, Medical School
...While these could be just canker sores, they could also be due to herpes, a fungal infection, etc. Their characteristics and some special tests should allow your doctor to make a diagnosis. There are Read more »
Herpes of the Throat
Is it possible to have recurrent herpes at the base of the throat and, if so, would it produce excruciating and incapacitating headaches?
Response from David A. Reznik, D.D.S.
Grady Health System
...For the most part, herpetic infections of the oral cavity occur on keratinized tissues such as the gingiva (gums) and hard palate (roof of the mouth). Whereas it is possible to have a Read more »
Herpes I = Herpes II
I have herpes I (cold sores.) I've been told that if you have Herpes I you are not infected with Herpes II (genital herpes.) Is that true? Is it possible to have both?
Response from Ryan M. Kull, C.S.W
Columbia University's Health & Related Services
...Almost 90 percent of Americans are infected with HSV-1 (the type that typically causes cold sores/fever blisters around the mouth), mostly through non-sexual contact. Approximately 45 million, or one out of five, Americans above 12 years of age... Read more »
Go to Ask the Experts »
Articles
Understanding Genital Herpes
...Genital herpes is caused by herpes simplex virus (HSV). There are two types of HSV. HSV type 1 most commonly infects the mouth and lips, causing sores known as fever blisters or cold sores. HSV type 2 is the usual cause of genital herpes,... Read more »
Herpes Zoster (Shingles)
...or around the nose and eyes. In rare cases, herpes can infect the facial or eye nerves. This can cause outbreaks around the mouth, on the face, neck, and scalp, in and around the ear, or at the tip of the nose. Shingles outbreaks are almost... Read more »
Genital Herpes
...and may not know that he or she is infected. HSV-1 can cause genital herpes, but it more commonly causes infections of the mouth and lips, so-called "fever blisters." HSV-1 infection of the genitals can be caused by oral-genital or... Read more »
IRIS: A Concern for People Starting HIV Therapy
...Concerns for Women, Children and People Over 50 What Does the Research Show? Commentary Introduction It's a mouthful of a phrase, but immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) is a serious condition that can be... Read more »
Resource Centers
African Americans
Aging
Gay Men
Keeping Up With Your Meds
Latinos
Newly Diagnosed
Starting Treatment
Women
Guides for People With HIV
View All of Our Guides >>
© 2015 Remedy Health Media, LLC All Rights Reserved
Facebook
Twitter
Newsletters
The Body
About The Body
Contact The Body
Site Policies
Content Providers
Advertise With Us
Site Map
Remedy Health Media
About Remedy Health Media
Contact Remedy Health Media
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
The Body is a service of Remedy Health Media, LLC, 750 3rd Avenue, 6th Floor, New York, NY 10017. The Body and its logos are trademarks of Remedy Health Media, LLC, and its subsidiaries, which owns the copyright of The Body's homepage, topic pages, page designs and HTML code. General Disclaimer: The Body is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice or professional services. The information provided through The Body should not be used for diagnosing or treating a health problem or a disease. It is not a substitute for professional care. If you have or suspect you may have a health problem, consult your health care provider.