Have you wondered if WiFi is Safe?Learn how to Reduce WiFi Exposure
World Health Choice ®
Home
Health
Natural Remedies
Healthy Drinks
Diet & Weight Loss
Healthy Tips
Recipes
Other
About Us
World Health Choice ®
Your Health is Your Choice*
Home
Health
Natural Remedies
Healthy Drinks
Diet & Weight Loss
Healthy Tips
Recipes
Other
About Us
Health / Healthy Tips
0
Have you wondered if WiFi is Safe? Learn how to Reduce WiFi Exposure
by worldhealthchoice · November 25, 2016
Have you wondered “Is WiFi Safe?” at these levels?
Technology has allowed us to go wireless and avoid the hassle of cables. We can now remotely turn the TVs on, start a coffee machine, and monitor babies using wireless technology. At the same time, we are exposed to unprecedented levels of electromagnetic radiation from wireless signals 24/7.
Is WiFi Safe?
Hang on tight this may get controversial. There seem to be two rather extreme opinions when it comes to WiFi. One side says that it is completely safe and likes the idea of “smart” houses with everything run off Wifi. The other side is ready to build a Faraday Cage around themselves at all time.
The truth is likely somewhere in the middle.
Understand the Effects of WiFi
WiFi does not immediately cause illness. For this reason, many of us choose to ignore that it can have any effect at all. However, it can interfere with our bodily functions which may eventually progress into diseases like cancer and neuro-degenerative diseases after long-term exposure.
Because these are complex diseases that develop over decades, it’s hard to conclusively show that the increase in wireless signal exposures directly causes the diseases. International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) considers wireless radiation as a class 2B possible carcinogen due to limited evidence. These small number of studies are leaning towards showing that electromagnetic radiations, including WiFi, are not safe.
In the Lancet article outlining their considerations, that IARC states that epidemiological studies that follow humans who use WiFi and cell phones for a few years are not conclusive. However, rodent studies that follow the animals throughout their lifetime find that wireless radiation does cause cancer or worsen cancer prognosis. The same animal studies also observed other changes in the brain and blood-brain barrier in animals that are exposed to the radiation.
The limited evidence in humans may be why regulators are claiming that this type of radiation is safe. However, some anecdotal evidence, such as how Canadian families in Ontario are noticing headaches and brain fogs in their children, suggest that WiFi may not be healthy, so it is probably better to err on the side of caution.
It is even more important to protect children and developing fetuses from radiation as their small and growing bodies are more vulnerable to radiation than adults. Many products on the market aim to help protect babies in uterus from WiFi radiation (like this belly armor blanket and even this belly-shielding band for pregnant moms).
5 Ways To Reduce WiFi Exposure
First, it is really important to reduce WiFi use as much as possible. Maybe sounds impossible but we all know about the long-term effects of WiFi. The pro-WiFi crowd may scoff at the idea that anything could be potentially harmful about it, but we once thought smoking was perfectly fine too!
While it may not be possible to get the entire family on board, there are many options to reduce exposure while keeping everyone happy, including:
Turn off WiFi Before Going to Bed (Good)
Everyone should be sleeping nice at bedtime. During sleep, WiFi signal may actually interfere with the brain. Therefore, turn it off before going to bed. This allows the body to relax and rest more deeply. By turning it off at night, you are effectively cutting down the exposure by 33%.
Many router models will have features that make it possible automatically shut off WiFi connection. It will turn it back on every day at the same time which will be very useful for this purpose.
Turn On WiFi Router Only When in Use (Better)
Having the option to switch on the router when in use is a better option as this reduces WiFi exposure only to a few hours a day.
Give Up Wireless and Hardwire All Your Connections ( The Best)
The healthiest option is to give up WiFi. It may sound daunting, but it is possible and may mitigate several health issues down the line. In addition, you will enjoy more consistent and faster internet when directly hardwired in. It is certainly more work and not doable for everyone, but something we are (slowly) attempting.
You’ll need to pick up some affordable tools, including:
Ethernet hub – if the one you have doesn’t have enough ports for every device and everyone to use. They can be plugged into an existing hub that you already have in order to expand the number of ports.
Long Ethernet cables – to allow everyone to connect from anywhere in your home.
Ethernet adapters – makes it possible to connect devices that don’t have ethernet ports, including tablets, smartphones, and some computers.
It is also a good idea to use wired peripherals like keyboards, mice, and headphones instead of wireless ones to reduce exposures to electromagnetic radiation.
If that all seems complicated to set up, I’d recommend asking someone to help. My tech-savvy brother was the lucky recipient of my questions.
Hold Up on Adding Gadgets or Upgrading to Smart Homes, Offices, and Cars
With new wireless technology, wireless-enabled devices with bells and whistles are on sale every single day. Smart home thermostats, Bluetooth-controlled cookers, wireless baby monitoring system, and smart beds might make life easier, but they may not be as safe as we think.
Such technologies are still very new. These devices use many forms of wireless technologies, for which we don’t fully understand the long-term health consequences. For these, less is more.
Turn Devices on Airplane Mode
Cell phones and tablets emit electromagnetic frequency when the receivers are turned on. Because we typically use these devices very close to our bodies for extended periods of time, exposure levels can be very high. Therefore, it’s important to keep them on airplane mode, especially when they are around children.
Remember also to teach children and caregivers to turn these devices on airplane mode to reduce WiFi and electromagnetic exposures.
*You have our permission to copy or reprint our articles only if you write our link below – worldhealthchoice
Tags: cancerEffects of WiFihealthWiFiWiFi Exposure
You may also like...
0
8 Benefits & Uses of Bee Pollen! Amazing Natural Remedy
February 25, 2018
by worldhealthchoice · Published February 25, 2018
0
Foods That Will Help Repopulate Intestinal Flora and Improve Your Health
December 5, 2016
by worldhealthchoice · Published December 5, 2016
0
Synthetic THC Drug Approval in USA! Read Why is This Possible
April 11, 2017
by worldhealthchoice · Published April 11, 2017
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Follow:
Next story Drop 5 Pounds in One Week – Great Weight Loss Recipes
Previous story Some People Have A Tiny Extra Hole In Their Ear. What does that mean?
Like Us On Facebook
Recent Posts
7 Incredible Benefits of Walnuts
Liver Diseases Symptoms And Incredible Natural Treatments
Remove Sugar From Your Diet And You Will Starve Cancer to Death!
7 Incredible Benefits of Garlic Juice and How to Make It!
4 Types of Headaches Are Dangerous For Your Body! [Video]
Archives
Archives Select Month February 2019 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016
More
Subscribe to World Health Choice Newsletter
Email *
Popular Posts
Recent Comments
Tags
Healthy Tips
VERY SIMPLE WAYS TO ALKALIZE YOUR BODY– AMAZING EFFECTS!
22 Oct, 2016
Healthy Drinks / Natural Remedies
Banana Tea!? – Treats insomnia better than any other medication
1 Oct, 2016
Healthy Tips
Perfect Sleep Balm That Will Send You Immediately to Sleep
11 Dec, 2016
Healthy Drinks
Natural Juice kills Cancer cells in 42 days!Simply Amazing!
12 Oct, 2016
Natural Remedies
Famous Scientist Reveals the most powerful remedy- Cancer Retreats
1 Oct, 2016
Johnd73 says:
I went over this site and I conceive you have a...
Carey says:
Because of all these things that I see on Facebook, regarding...
Rob taylor says:
Brilliant information keep up the good work
Saji says:
Very useful practical information for a healthy living.
Annette says:
Great health information. TY
allergies aloe vera antioxidant antioxidants apple cider vinegar Asthma Bacteria Baking soda Blood pressure blood sugar body cancer cholesterol cinnamon coconut oil diabetes diet digestion digestive system Essential Oil fat Garlic ginger Hair hair loss Headaches health Health Benefits healthy himalayan salt honey immune system insomnia Lemon liver lose weight olive oil skin Stress sugar symptoms toxins turmeric water Weight loss
Terms And Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact
XML Sitemap
World Health Choice ® © 2019. All Rights Reserved.
Our website uses cookies. By continuing we assume your permission to use cookies as detailed in our privacy policy.OkRead more