rimming | Planned Parenthood Advocates of Arizona
Planned Parenthood Advocates of Arizona
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
PPAA Home
About Our Blog
Commenting Policy
Contact Us
Newsroom
Get Involved
Become a Member
Become a Volunteer
Receive Care
Tag Archives: rimming
Post navigation
← Older posts
Dental Dams Help Spread Intimacy, Not STDs
Posted on February 14, 2018 by Serena Freewomyn
Reply
It’s that time of the year when people focus on intimacy and romance. Most people think jewelry and roses are good gifts to give for Valentine’s Day. They’re nice, but you know what’s even better? Dental dams.
What’s a dental dam, you ask? Like condoms, dental dams are a way to prevent the spread of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) by covering the vagina or anus during oral sex. Dental dams are usually made of latex, and some are made from polyurethane. Since they’re used for oral sex, dental dams often come in different flavors, and they’re flexible enough to fit in your purse.
Dental dams are an essential component of protecting your sexual health.
Dental dams are particularly useful for lesbian partners, since oral sex is a common form of sexual activity, but anyone who engages in cunnilingus (the oral stimulation of female genitals) can use them. Dental dams are also beneficial for consenting partners who enjoy anal play (aka “rimming”). Dental dams serve as a barrier against most STDs, since many sexually transmitted diseases, such as syphilis, human papillomavirus (HPV), and herpes, can be passed simply by skin-to-skin contact. Gonorrhea, chlamydia, and hepatitis A and B viruses can also be spread through oral sex. HIV can be transmitted through oral sex if blood is present.
Unfortunately, dental dams aren’t distributed as widely as condoms are. You’re not likely to find a dental dam dispenser in a public restroom, and many community organizations provide dental dams on a request-only basis because they’re more expensive than condoms. And most drug stores don’t carry dental dams in the same aisle as condoms and lube because dental dams were originally created to be used during dental procedures. (Get it — dental dams.) Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in LGBTQ, Sexual Health	| Tagged accessibility, anal sex, anilingus, barrier method, bisexual, blood, chlamydia, cold sores, cunnilingus, dental dams, eat out, gay, genital herpes, gonorrhea, hepatitis A virus, hepatitis B virus, herpes, HIV, human papillomavirus, latex, lesbian, LGBT, oral herpes, oral sex, polyurethane, queer, rimming, sexually transmitted diseases, sexually transmitted infections, syphilis, vagina, Valentine's Day, vulva	| Leave a reply
STD Awareness: Can I Use Plastic Wrap as a Dental Dam During Oral Sex?
Posted on January 4, 2016 by Anna C.
Reply
If you read this blog — or any sexual health website, really — you’ll probably see dental dams getting a lot of props. A dental dam (not to be confused with a female condom) is a square piece of latex that can cover the vaginal opening or the anus. Anyone wishing to avoid the oral transmission of STDs like herpes, gonorrhea, HPV, syphilis, chlamydia, and intestinal parasites, dental-dam advocates say, should use a latex barrier. Most people, however, have probably never even seen a dental dam, and they are not widely used. Perhaps their unpopularity is related to myths about oral sex being safe sex (it’s not!); perhaps it’s due to dental dams being expensive or difficult to find.
Plastic wrap hasn’t been evaluated by the FDA for STD prevention, and no studies have assessed its effectiveness in reducing disease risk during oral sex.
Some safer-sex aficionados have found ways around that, though. They might cut the tips off of condoms and make incisions along the sides, creating little latex rectangles. An even easier and cheaper option lies in plastic wrap, which many people use as a barrier while performing cunnilingus (oral contact with the female genitalia) or rimming (oral contact with the anus). It is inexpensive, easy to find, odorless, and tasteless, and can be purchased without even a hint of embarrassment (unless perhaps your other purchases include duct tape, cucumbers, and clothes pins). And it can be pulled off the roll in sheets as long as your heart desires!
Planned Parenthood endorses the use of plastic wrap for oral sex when dental dams aren’t available. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and AIDS.gov both recommend plastic wrap for use during rimming. Health authorities, such as AIDS.gov and the Idaho Department of Health & Welfare, recommend non-microwavable Saran Wrap, because microwave-safe Saran Wrap has tiny pores to let out steam — which might also let viruses and bacteria through. Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged anilingus, Australia, bacteria, barrier, barrier method, chlamydia, cling film, cling wrap, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, cunnilingus, dental dam, E. coli, eat out, Escherichia coli, evidence, evidence-based medicine, FDA, female condom, Food and Drug Administration, genital herpes, giardiasis, Glad Wrap, go down, gonorrhea, gonorrhea of the throat, herpes, herpes simplex virus, HIV, HPV, human papillomavirus, internal condom, intestinal parasites, LDPE, low density polyethylene, lubricant, mad cow disease, microbe, microwave, oral gonorrhea, oral sex, pathogen, permeability, pharyngeal gonorrhea, plastic wrap, polyethylene, polythene film, prion, protozoa, rimming, safer sex, sandwich wrap, Saran Wrap, sex dam, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted infection, Sheer Glyde Dam, shrink wrap, STD, STD Awareness, STI, studies, syphilis, trials, virus	| Leave a reply
STD Awareness: Is Bacterial Vaginosis a Sexually Transmitted Disease?
Posted on November 2, 2015 by Anna C.
21
Gardnerella vaginalis under a microscope. Image: K.K. Jefferson/Virginia Commonwealth University
Bacterial vaginosis, or BV, is the most common vaginal infection among people 15 to 44 years of age. It’s caused by an overgrowth of harmful bacteria, such as Gardnerella vaginalis. A healthy vagina hosts thriving populations of Lactobacillus bacteria species, but when these “good” bacteria are crowded out by certain types of “bad” bacteria, the vaginal ecosystem can be shifted, causing BV.
There is a lot of confusion about BV. Is it a sexually transmitted disease (STD)? What are the symptoms? How can you avoid it?
All good questions. Let’s examine them one by one.
Is BV an STD?
The consensus seems to be that BV isn’t officially an STD, but even reliable sources have somewhat contradictory information. Planned Parenthood doesn’t list BV as an STD on their informational webpages. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does include BV on their STD website, but also says that “BV is not considered an STD.”
On the other hand, the Office on Women’s Health says that “BV can … be caused by vaginal, oral, or anal sex” and that “you can get BV from male or female partners.” And there’s an entire chapter devoted to BV in the premier medical textbook on STDs, and its authors say that, while sexually inexperienced females can get BV, “the weight of evidence supports sexual transmission” of G. vaginalis, the bacteria species most famously implicated in BV infections.
The same webpage on which the CDC declared BV not to be an STD also says that it can be transferred between female sexual partners. Indeed, women who have sex with women have higher rates of BV. Since vaginal fluid could spread BV, partners can change condoms when a sex toy is passed from one to another, and use barriers like dental dams when engaging in cunnilingus (oral contact with the female genitalia) or rimming (oral contact with the anus).
What about heterosexual transmission? Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged abstinence, alternative medicine, anaerobic vaginosis, anal sex, bacteria, bacterial vaginosis, barrier method, bladder infection, blister, bump, burning, BV, CDC, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, chancre, chlamydia, condom, cunnilingus, dental dam, diagnosis, discharge, douche, douching, G. vaginalis, Gardnerella vaginalis, Gardnerella vaginitis, genital herpes, gonorrhea, heterosexual, HIV, homosexual, honeymoon cystitis, itching, lactobacilli, Lactobacillus, lesbian, odor, Office on Women's Health, oral sex, overgrowth, polymicrobial, prevention, probiotics, recurrence, rimming, risk, risk factors, sex, sex toy, sexual partner, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted infection, smell, sore, sores, STD, STD Awareness, STI, symptoms, transmission, treatment, trichomoniasis, ulcer, vagina, vaginal discharge, vaginal ecosystem, vaginal flora, vaginal fluid, vaginal infection, vaginal microflora, vaginal sex, vaginitis, vaginosis, virgin, women who have sex with women, WSW, yeast infection	| 21 Replies
STD Awareness: Can Lesbians Get STDs?
Posted on April 7, 2014 by Anna C.
2
A couple of months ago, in time for Valentine’s Day, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced that it would start using the term “condomless sex” instead of “unprotected sex.” The move was hailed by many HIV advocacy groups for taking into account other risk-reduction practices, such as medications that decrease the chances of HIV transmission.
Women can transmit just about any STD to one another.
However, while medications can reduce HIV risk, condoms still offer protection from both pregnancy and many other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), such as chlamydia and gonorrhea. One reason that condoms are so valuable is that they can be placed over a penis to collect fluids before and after ejaculation — dramatically reducing risk for both pregnancy and many STDs. So, even when using anti-HIV meds, engaging in “condomless sex” can still be risky.
But what if partners are engaged in sexual activities that don’t involve penises? Not all sexual couplings involve a cisgender man, and even those that do might not utilize a penis at every encounter. When two people without penises have sex, they’re probably going to be engaging in condomless sex — though condoms can be placed over penetrative sex toys or cut along the sides to be converted into dental dams, they might not figure too prominently in this couple’s safer-sex arsenal. Lesbians protecting themselves with dental dams are technically engaged in “condomless sex,” but it’s still a far cry from being “unprotected.” Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in LGBTQ, Sexual Health	| Tagged bacteria, barrier method, BDSM, bisexual, blood, cervical cancer, chlamydia, cold sore, condom, cunnilingus, dental dam, dildo, fecal matter, feces, female, fingering, fisting, fluids, frottage, genital herpes, gloves, gonorrhea, HAV, hepatitis, hepatitis A, hepatitis A virus, herpes, herpes simplex virus, HIV, HPV, HSV-1, human immunodeficiency virus, human papillomavirus, intestinal parasites, lesbian, lesbians, LGBT, monogamy, oral herpes, oral sex, Pap smear, Pap test, pubic lice, rimming, s/m, sadomasochism, safe sex, safer sex, secretions, sex toy, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted infection, Sheer Glyde Dam, sperm donation, STD, STD Awareness, STI, syphilis, tribadism, trich, trichomoniasis, vibrator, virus, woman, women who have sex with women, WSW	| 2 Replies
Can Oral Herpes Be Spread to Genitals?
Posted on April 1, 2013 by Anna C.
33
A herpes simplex lesion on the lower lip on the second day after onset. Image: CDC
Herpes simplex virus is mystifying, fascinating, and sneaky. Mystifying because we have yet to unravel all of its secrets; fascinating because when we do uncover one of its mysteries, we are amazed by the capabilities of such a tiny, microscopic object; and sneaky because it enters our bodies by stealth and conceals itself in our cells, taking us by surprise when it comes out of hiding and causes outbreaks of blisters and other lesions.
It can also be confusing. Herpes simplex virus actually comes in two flavors: HSV-1 and HSV-2. HSV-1 is associated more with oral herpes, which can cause “cold sores,” a type of blister that appears on the lips or face. HSV-2 is associated more with genital herpes, which can cause blisters and other lesions in the genital area. It used to be standard to describe HSV-1 as an “above-the-waist” infection and HSV-2 as a “below-the-belt” infection — but now many researchers are pointing out that it’s more appropriate to say that HSV-1 is both an orally and genitally transmitted infection while HSV-2 is a predominantly genitally transmitted infection. If HSV-1 enters the body in the genital area, it can cause a genital herpes infection — and likewise, if HSV-2 enters the body in the facial area, it can cause an oral herpes infection.
Using condoms and dental dams during oral sex reduces risk of herpes transmission.
What exactly is a cold sore, anyway? A cold sore, also known as a fever blister, is a cluster of blisters that can pop up around the lips or even in the mouth. Sometimes, cold sores are so painful that eating or drinking is difficult, and in extreme cases sufferers must be treated for dehydration. An especially severe infection could also cause high fever or swollen lymph nodes, and in young adults a first oral HSV-1 infection might be misdiagnosed as tonsillitis, possibly leading to unnecessary tonsillectomies. Most symptomatic first-time cold-sore outbreaks occur during childhood, and take about two or three weeks to clear up. Luckily, the first infection is almost always the most severe, and when the infection is reactivated it usually happens without symptoms.
Because both cold sores and genital herpes are caused by herpes simplex viruses, and because oral herpes is so common, many people are concerned that they might be more vulnerable to acquiring a genital herpes infection than they previously thought. They might have a lot of questions, and if they’ve sought answers to those questions, they might have heard a lot of conflicting answers. Let’s see what the scientific literature has to say.
Can I get genital herpes if someone with cold sores performs oral sex on me?
Because HSV-1, the virus responsible for most oral herpes infections, can also cause genital herpes, many people wonder if someone with cold sores can transmit the virus to someone else by performing oral sex, resulting in a genital herpes infection. Other people wonder if HSV-1 can be transmitted via oral contact with the anus, resulting in a herpes infection in the rectal area. The answer to these questions is: Yes! Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged anilingus, asymptomatic, cold sore, cold sores, condom, condoms, crying, cunnilingus, dehydration, dental dam, fellatio, fever blister, fever blisters, genital herpes, herpes, herpes febrilis, herpes labialis, herpes simplex virus, Herpesviridae, HSV, HSV-1, HSV-2, human herpesvirus, human herpesvirus 1, human herpesvirus 2, immunity, oral herpes, oral sex, orolabial HSV infection, outbreak, polymerase chain reaction, reactivation, recrudescent herpes labialis, rimming, safe sex, safer sex, saliva, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted infection, spit, STD, STI, symptoms, tear, tonsillectomy, trigeminal nerve ganglia, viral shedding, virus	| 33 Replies
STD Awareness: 10 Myths About Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Posted on February 28, 2013 by Anna C.
Reply
The Internet is brimming with contradictory claims about sexual health, and you don’t know what to believe. Your friends give you advice, but you’re not sure if it sounds right. To make things worse, you might not have had evidence-based, medically accurate sex education in your school. In this edition of our STD Awareness series, we’ll take on a few myths about sexually transmitted diseases to help you sort fact from fiction.
1 MYTH: You can tell if someone has an STD by looking at them.
You might expect that if someone has an STD, their genitals would have blisters, warts, or noticeable discharge. But your partner looks fine, so you might think there’s no need to ask when his or her last STD test was.
However, while many people with STDs do have visible symptoms, they’re the exception rather than the rule. For example, three out of four women and half of men with chlamydia have no symptoms. Herpes is often spread when there are no symptoms present. Someone can be infected with HIV — and capable of transmitting it to others — and go years without showing any signs. A quick visual inspection can’t tell you very much about someone’s STD status.
2 MYTH: You can’t get an STD from oral sex.
While it is generally true that oral sex presents less of a risk for contracting STDs, this risk is not trivial. Most STDs can be passed along by oral sex, including chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, hepatitis B, herpes, human papillomavirus (HPV), and HIV. You can reduce your risk by using barrier methods like condoms and dental dams consistently and correctly.
3 MYTH: Condoms can’t prevent the spread of HIV.
Many proponents of abstinence-only education state that condoms don’t protect against HIV, claiming that latex condoms have holes that are large enough for viruses to pass through. This claim isn’t backed by evidence. An intact latex condom dramatically reduces your risk of being exposed to sexually transmitted viruses such as HIV. (It is true that a lambskin condom does not provide adequate protection against HIV.) Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged abstinence-only education, AIDS, anal intercourse, barrier methods, BDSM, blisters, blood, breastfeeding, childbirth, chlamydia, chlorine, condom, condoms, cunnilingus, dental dams, discharge, douche, douching, fingering, fisting, genital herpes, gonorrhea, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, herpes, HIV, hot tubs, HPV, human immunodeficiency virus, human papillomavirus, intestinal parasites, lambskin condoms, latex condoms, latex gloves, lesbian, LGBT, lube, lubricant, natural cures, natural membrane, oral herpes, oral sex, pregnancy, rimming, s/m, sadomasochism, safe sex, secretions, sex ed, sex education, sex toys, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted infection, sheepskin condoms, should I pee after sex?, silicon-based lubricant, STD, STD Awareness, STD testing, STI, symptoms, syphilis, tribadism, trichomoniasis, urinating, vaginal sex, Vaseline, virgin, virginity, virus, warts, washing, water-based lubricant	| Leave a reply
STD Awareness: 10 Sexually Transmitted Diseases You Probably Don’t Know About
Posted on July 5, 2012 by Anna C.
4
Giardia lamblia, a microbe that can be transmitted sexually. Image: NIH
Gonorrhea and chlamydia go back to antiquity. Syphilis took hold in Europe during the late 15th century. Herpes wasn’t on most people’s radars until the early 1980s, and human papillomavirus (HPV) was relegated to relative obscurity in the popular imagination until the HPV vaccines made their debuts less than a decade ago.
Have you heard of CMV, chancroid, or donovanosis?
But there are still a handful of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) that you might not know about. These include incredibly common infections, as well as those caused by pathogens you might have heard of but probably don’t associate with sexual transmission. They also include infections that are very rare here in Arizona but are much more common in other parts of the world. They all deserve a closer look.
10 Trichomoniasis: What is the most common curable STD? You might guess that it’s chlamydia or gonorrhea, but according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, it’s trichomoniasis (also known as trich, pronounced “trick”). This infection is caused by Trichomonas vaginalis, a single-celled parasite that is actually pretty cute as far as microbes go. What’s not so cute is its propensity to attach to your cells and degrade their surfaces, which on a large scale can produce unpleasant symptoms. Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged adenovirus, adult T-cell leukemia lymphoma, amebiasis, anilingus, ATL, bacteria, Calymmatobacterium granulomatis, chancroid, Chlamydia trachomatis, climatic bubo, cryptosporidiosis, donovanosis, Durand-Nicolas-Favre disease, EBV, Epstein-Barr virus, fecal contamination, fifth venereal disease, Filatov's disease, fourth venereal disease, genital mycoplasma, genital mycoplasmas, giardiasis, granuloma inguinale, granuloma venereum, Haemophilus ducreyi, HAM/TSP, HTLV, HTLV-1, HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis, human herpesvirus 4, human T-cell leukemia virus type 1, human T-cell lymphotropic virus, human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1, infectious mononucleosis, infective dermatitis, intestinal parasites, Klebsiella granulomatis, LGV, lymphogranuloma inguinale, lymphogranuloma venereum, M. genitalium, molluscum contagiosum, mono, Mycoplasma genitalium, NGU, nongonococcal urethritis, nonspecific urethritis, oral-anal contact, parasitic infections, Pfeiffer's disease, poradenitis inguinalis, protozoa, retrovirus, rimming, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted diseases, sexually transmitted infection, sexually transmitted infections, sixth venereal disease, STD, STD Awareness, STDs, STI, STI Awareness, STIs, strumous bubo, symptoms, trich, Trichomonas vaginalis, trichomoniasis, tropical bubo, virus	| 4 Replies
Post navigation
← Older posts
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Subscribe
Follow us on Twitter! Like us on Facebook! Subscribe to RSS! Receive PPAA updates!
Recent Posts
Reproductive Health-Care Providers Challenge Arizona Laws That Put Women’s Health at Risk
From HPV to Cancer to Dry Mouth
STD Awareness: Can HIV Be Cured Now?
STD Awareness: The Syphilis Outbreak’s Youngest Victims
Women Fighting for Everyone’s Health
Women Harnessing the Law
STD Awareness: Syphilis Treatment Through the Ages
Top Posts & Pages
STD Awareness: Will STDs Go Away on Their Own?
STD Awareness: Is Bacterial Vaginosis a Sexually Transmitted Disease?
Can Oral Herpes Be Spread to Genitals?
STD Awareness: How Can I Protect Myself if My Partner Has Herpes?
STD Awareness: Why Should You Care About Oral Gonorrhea?
My Partner Just Told Me They Have Herpes. I Don't. Now What?
STD Awareness: Asymptomatic Shedding of Herpes
STD Awareness: Is There an STD That Causes Maggots?
Categories
Abortion (62)
Activism (32)
Arizona News (19)
Birth Control (79)
Book & Film Reviews (22)
Cancer (30)
Elections (182)
General Health (21)
History (92)
Legislative Watch (44)
LGBTQ (37)
Men's Health (21)
National News (27)
PPAA News (13)
Pregnancy & Parenthood (32)
Racial Justice (18)
Relationships (9)
Rundowns (121)
Sex Education (23)
Sexual Health (167)
Sexual Violence (14)
Spirituality (8)
Volunteers (17)
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 (3) March 2019 (3) February 2019 (4) January 2019 (4) December 2018 (4) November 2018 (4) October 2018 (8) September 2018 (8) August 2018 (8) July 2018 (7) June 2018 (4) May 2018 (4) April 2018 (6) March 2018 (7) February 2018 (10) January 2018 (6) December 2017 (6) November 2017 (4) October 2017 (7) September 2017 (6) August 2017 (9) July 2017 (7) June 2017 (8) May 2017 (8) April 2017 (6) March 2017 (7) February 2017 (6) January 2017 (8) December 2016 (6) November 2016 (5) October 2016 (13) September 2016 (9) August 2016 (15) July 2016 (13) June 2016 (6) May 2016 (5) April 2016 (5) March 2016 (5) February 2016 (6) January 2016 (6) December 2015 (5) November 2015 (6) October 2015 (5) September 2015 (4) August 2015 (8) July 2015 (4) June 2015 (7) May 2015 (7) April 2015 (6) March 2015 (9) February 2015 (7) January 2015 (8) December 2014 (10) November 2014 (8) October 2014 (36) September 2014 (11) August 2014 (18) July 2014 (18) June 2014 (9) May 2014 (7) April 2014 (8) March 2014 (8) February 2014 (8) January 2014 (5) December 2013 (7) November 2013 (7) October 2013 (8) September 2013 (10) August 2013 (4) July 2013 (5) June 2013 (7) May 2013 (6) April 2013 (10) March 2013 (10) February 2013 (12) January 2013 (8) December 2012 (7) November 2012 (7) October 2012 (20) September 2012 (18) August 2012 (9) July 2012 (16) June 2012 (7) May 2012 (9) April 2012 (7) March 2012 (13) February 2012 (10) January 2012 (8) December 2011 (2) November 2011 (1) October 2011 (3) September 2011 (3) August 2011 (3) July 2011 (1) June 2011 (8) May 2011 (7) April 2011 (8) March 2011 (8) February 2011 (12) January 2011 (12) December 2010 (6) November 2010 (5) October 2010 (18) September 2010 (9) August 2010 (5) February 2010 (1) November 2009 (1) August 2009 (2)
Links
Arizona List
Emily's List
Planned Parenthood Arizona
Planned Parenthood Federation of America
Find Us
Our bloggers cannot diagnose medical conditions or recommend treatment. See a licensed medical professional for diagnosis and treatment.
Please see this page for our Commenting Policy.
Proudly powered by WordPress
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.