4 Tips to Curb Snacking and Feel Fuller
☰
Health
Diet
Lifestyle
Medicare
Video
Find Your Plan
Diet
4 Tips to Curb Snacking and Feel Fuller
March 06, 2018
Hunger and snacking are two of the most common reasons that dieters struggle. Today, we’re looking at simple ways you can curb your hunger and beat snacking.
If you’ve ever heard your stomach grumble between meals, you’ve known the temptation to snack. Trick your brain out of hunger with these tips!
Snacking is dieting’s worst enemy. So many well-thought-out weight loss plans have fallen at the feet of the 3 PM hunger. You don’t want to ruin your good work, but larger portions during meals defeat the purpose of eating healthier. That said, eating a few cookies to sate your craving also sets you back.
This struggle can seem inescapable, and many dieters will encounter it at some point. You don’t have to admit defeat when snack time rolls around. No, you can beat it with a few smart tricks that’ll leave you feeling fuller, but healthier.
Drink Water
If snacking is a diet’s nemesis, then water is snacking’s. Water is a zero calorie, zero sugar, zero fat drink that’s both hydrating and filling. This makes it a great alternative to a snack. In a sense, a snack is a craving, not a necessary meal. Because of this, you don’t need to eat, you’re just a bit peckish. Water is a great way to fill you up between meals.
In fact, sometimes, when you feel hungry, you’re actually feeling thirsty. Our bodies are not very good at telling the difference between the two. So, if you’re thinking you’re hungry around snack time, grab a drink of water. You may just be thirsty.
Water can also be effective in preventing overeating during meals. Before you start eating dinner, for example, drink a glass of water. Filling up with calorie-free water helps you eat less and lose additional weight. If you want to add a little flavor to your water, try a cup of black tea. The calories are minimal (if you’re not adding milk or sugar), and there’s a little more flavor.
Chew Gum
Some may consider it a bad habit, but if you’re finding snack cravings to be irresistible, you can try chewing some gum. Studies found that chewing gum curbs hunger and promotes weight loss. Gum-chewing simulates eating which can trick your brain into thinking you’re eating. Studies show this can actually help you feel full. You won’t lose a massive amount of weight from this trick alone, but it’s one tool in your kit.
Make It Harder to Snack
Sometimes, snacking is inevitable. We’re all human, so, on occasion, we err. To account for this, there are steps you can take.
If you want to limit how much you snack, make it harder to get to them. Literally, put up little obstacles. Studies show that we’re incredibly lazy when we snack. Even simply hiding the candy may be enough to curb your snacking. Who would have thought laziness could help us lose weight?
Workout
Previously, we’ve talked about how exercise can make you hungry and how it can lead to sabotaging your workout by “rewarding” yourself with unhealthy food. Research shows that exercise can make you hungry, but can also limit hunger. The important factor is the intensity of the workout. The harder you exercise, the longer and more effective it is at curbing appetite. Just remember to not “reward” yourself afterward with an unhealthy recovery snack.
● ● ●
Anyone who has tried out a diet has grappled with snacking, especially if your new diet eliminates some food or food group. That gnawing hunger between meals can be difficult to deny. Difficult, that is, unless you know what you’re doing. With these tricks in your arsenal, overindulging on snacks can become a thing of the past.
Just like you, your health is one of a kind. What works for one person may not for another, so the information in these articles should not take the place of an expert opinion. Before making significant lifestyle or diet changes, please consult your primary care physician or nutritionist. Your doctor will know your own health best.
Sign Up for the Newsletter
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Subscribe
You May Also Like
Seasonal Picks: 3 Foods You Should Try This Spring
Posted: Apr 9, 2019
The Importance of Healthy Hydration
Posted: Apr 2, 2019
What is Medicareful Living?
Posted: Mar 28, 2019
Superfood Snack Hacks: Pomegranates
Posted: Mar 27, 2019
You May Also Like
What is Medicareful Living?
Posted: Mar 28, 2019
Medicare Costs and Coverage for Medical Emergency Services
Posted: Nov 13, 2018
Does Medicare Cover Telehealth Services?
Posted: Oct 11, 2018
Does Medicare Cover Mental Health?
Posted: Sep 6, 2018
Just like you, your health is one of a kind. What works for one person may not for another, so the information in these articles should not take the place of an expert opinion. Before making significant lifestyle or diet changes, please consult your primary care physician or nutritionist. Your doctor will know your own health best.
Medicareful Living: For a Healthy, Full Life
Medicareful Living focuses on not just managing your health, but improving your life. This is possible when you find the right Medicare option for you and your family.
Find Your Plan
Thank you, your request has been submitted to our staff. We will be in touch shortly.
Sign Up for Our Newsletter
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Subscribe
Copyright © 2019 Ritter Insurance Marketing, LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms & Privacy Policy