A Complete Guide to Crystal Healing: What You Need To Know
Please enable JavaScript to view this website.
April 23, 2019
Subscribe
Shop
Past Issues
Mind
Mindfulness
Meditation
Body
Yoga
Relationships
Spirit
Without Limits
Consciousness
Conscious Culture
Art
Music
Travel
Events
Health
Healthy Recipes
Superfoods
Ayurveda
Eco
Humanitarianism
Contributors
Contact Us
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms
Advertise
Support
Issue Archive
My Account
- Menu -
— Menu —SubscribeShopPast IssuesMind- Mindfulness- MeditationBody- Yoga- RelationshipsSpirit- Without Limits- ConsciousnessConscious Culture- Art- Music- Travel- EventsHealth- Healthy Recipes- Superfoods- AyurvedaEco- HumanitarianismContributorsContact UsAbout UsPrivacy PolicyTermsAdvertiseSupportIssue ArchiveMy Account
Subscribe
Shop
Past Issues
Mind
Mindfulness
Meditation
Body
Yoga
Relationships
Spirit
Without Limits
Consciousness
Culture
Art
Music
Travel
Events
Health
Healthy Recipes
Superfoods
Ayurveda
Eco
Humanitarianism
Contributors
- Menu -
— Menu —SubscribeShopPast IssuesMind- Mindfulness- MeditationBody- Yoga- RelationshipsSpirit- Without Limits- ConsciousnessCulture- Art- Music- Travel- EventsHealth- Healthy Recipes- Superfoods- AyurvedaEco- HumanitarianismContributors
Search
The Secrets of Crystal Healing: A Complete Guide to Supercharging the Mind, Body and Spirit with Sacred Stones and Minerals
BY MINDVALLEY ACADEMY
crystal healing is a sacred ancient science that is once again becoming increasingly popular as people rediscover the immense power of stones for improving health and wellbeing on many different levels: mind, body, spirit and beyond.
Share:
Crystals have been used throughout all of history as a source of healing power. Ancient cultures all over the world used healing crystals and stones to align, clear and transform their energy, spirit and physical health. The metaphysical powers of crystals were no mystery to most ancient cultures including the Egyptians, Mayans and Sumerians who regularly adorned their bodies, jewelry and buildings with these sacred stones.
Even though these ancient cultures understood the incredible healing properties of crystals and gemstones, our modern culture has, for the most part, forgotten about these early healing techniques. Thankfully, there has been a recent surge in interest about the energetic healing powers of their properties beyond their use in pharmaceuticals.
In this article, we are excited to reveal some of these ancient crystal healing techniques to you. As you read, you’ll learn 7 different ways to use crystals to heal your body, mind and spirit. We’ll also be sharing which crystals and stones to use for a variety of life situations. But first, let’s dive into the mechanics of how crystals can actually heal you on a physical, mental, emotional and energetic level.
How Does Crystal Healing Work?
Research into the structure of the atom over the last few hundred years has revealed that everything in our entire universe is made up of energy. Even solid objects, like a piece of furniture or the hair on your head, are really just vibrations of energy at the most fundamental levels. It may not look like it to your eye, but healing crystals and the cells in your body are made up of the same kind of energy.
Scientists have already figured out how to use the energy inherent in crystals for all kinds of things like keeping time using small quartz crystals in your watch or creating the electronic components to your computer and smartphone. Whether you realize it or not, the energetic properties of healing crystals and stones are widely used in our modern technology.
We even use crystals in our medications. Many pharmaceuticals are made by grinding up minerals that form inside of healing crystals. Even though our culture has several uses for the energetic properties of crystals, we have neglected to standardize their use in energetic healing.
Just like magnets use energy to attract or repel, healing stones crystals use energy in the same way. When you place certain crystals over certain parts of your body, your energy transforms, vibrates, pulses, moves and shifts in accordance with the properties and energetic signature of the crystal.
What Type of Healing Can You Expect From Crystals?
You can use crystals to heal everything from migraines to anxiety and beyond. Healing crystals can also accelerate your meditation practices, align your 7 chakras and even induce trance states under the right conditions. There’s no limit to the types or level of healing you can get from the right crystal or stone in the right application.
Free Enlightened Living Course: Take Your Happiness, Health, Prosperity & Consciousness to the Next Level
Discover powerful insights and techniques for creating radiant health, happiness, prosperity, peace and flow in your life and relationships.
If you’re looking to heal some aspect of your mind, body or spirit, there are essentially 3 primary ways healing crystals can transform your energy and resolve imbalance:
Clearing – Crystals have the ability to absorb and remove certain types of energy from your body. Like a magnet can pick up little pieces of metal shavings, a healing crystal can absorb negative energy from your body.
Energizing – Healing crystals and stones can also push energy into your body, mind or spirit through inducing resonant frequencies. This is similar to the way electricity works by conducting and transferring energy into an object. A crystal can harness energy from the quantum field and send it into your own energy field. Don’t worry, unlike electricity, this crystal healing energy is painless and not dangerous.
Balancing – Our world is very symmetrical. Look at the leaves on trees or even your body. The energy of our planet aligns things in a mirrored pattern. Sometimes, your energy may be misaligned and out of balance, and healing crystals can use the properties mentioned above, which are essentially attracting and repelling, to balance out areas of energetic disharmony.
Ways to Use Healing Crystals
a beautiful example of a crystal healing grid featuring rose quartz, citrine and regular quartz. photo: natalie cochran
There are thousands upon thousands of types of healing stones and crystals in the world. There is an incredible amount of untapped healing power just sitting out there waiting for you! However, before we dive into figuring out what type of crystal is ideal for your personal use, let’s go over some different ways you can use crystals to heal yourself.
Wear healing crystals. Since crystals and stones absorb, repel and transmit energy, wearing certain healing crystals can help you balance your energy field throughout the day. Think of the crystals you wear like taking a vitamin. You eat the vitamin and it nourishes your body for the entire day. Putting on your crystal jewelry in the morning or putting certain stones in your pocket is like taking your daily vitamin on an energetic level.
Place healing crystals on a specific part of the body. Anyone familiar with crystal healing is probably familiar with this type of healing—the laying of stones. If you’re looking for a very direct, specific application, placing crystals on that part of your body is an excellent way to access their healing properties. For example, when you get a burn, you apply a burn ointment to the wound. If you have a headache, you might sit quietly with a quartz crystal on the spot of your pain.
Meditate with them. Healing stones and crystals are often millions of years old, and they contain a lot of information about our history. In fact, a quartz crystal can hold as much data as over 22,000 iPhones, and that information doesn’t degrade over time. By sitting with crystals and quieting your mind during meditation, you are often able to intuitively receive amazing, life-changing insights by simply holding an energetic piece of history like that in your hands during the process.
Use a healing crystal grid. When you use a crystal grid, you lay out specific types of crystals and stones in a predetermined pattern. These patterns are designed to receive and transmute energy. Using a crystal grid is an ancient healing technique and it can take time to learn all the different types of grids, but most people find it to be worth it as it is an extremely powerful practice.
Sleep near them. Our subconscious minds take over when we’re sleeping, and it’s a great time to heal and learn at an accelerated pace. Allowing healing crystals to work while your sleeping can eliminate any hurdles your rational mind might be presenting with fear or doubt. Try placing crystals under your pillow or on your bedside table and see how they effect your dreams and how you feel when you wake up tin the morning.
Move them around the body. Crystals don’t need to sit still to work effectively. In fact, sometimes it’s better to move stones and crystals all around your body to get the most healing effect from them. Try using a healing crystal wand to clear negative energy fields from your head to your toe. Keep in mind that your energy field extends about 3 ft. around you, so don’t hesitate to work on your entire aura when practicing crystal healing.
Place them in your home or car. You can also use healing stones and crystals to protect you or empower an intention. For example, you can place protective crystals in your car to block negative energy from accidents or break ins by placing that intention into the crystal and then leaving in them in those places. You can use them in the same way in your home or to set the energy for a room. Crystals like rose quartz can also draw in romantic energy in your bedroom or healing energy near your tub.
Cleansing and Aligning Your Crystals
Since healing crystals absorb, attract and repel certain types of energy, it’s important to keep your crystals clean. If you use crystals to absorb negative energy, you’ll want to get rid of that energy before using them again. Think of this like using a sponge to soak up dirty water. If you want to keep using the sponge, you’ll need to squeeze out the dirty dirty water and clean it up so the next plate you wash doesn’t also get dirty.
When you purchase healing crystals or stones in a store or online, they have been absorbing and repelling the energy of everyone who has touched them. Before you use them on yourself, you’ll need to cleanse their energy and align it with yours.
Doing this is simple. You can soak your crystals (don’t soak selenite or amber though as they will dissolve) in purified water, salt water or holy water. Smudging (using the smoke from white sage, dried herbs or incense) can also cleanse your crystals. Some people even give their healing crystals a moon bath by letting them sit out at night under the light of the full moon.
After you’ve cleaned your stones and crystals for healing, align them with your energy by holding them in the palm of your hand, closing your eyes, stating your intention for them and thanking them for the healing they will provide.
Finally, clean your crystals after each use. This means crystals you wear every day should be cleaned before you wear them the next day, and crystals used for a healing session should be promptly cleaned after each session.
Deciding Which Type of Crystal To Use
Consulting a crystal healing guide is a great way to figure out which crystals to use for which problems and scenarios. We’ve included one below to get you started. However, your intuition will always be your best guide. You can ask the crystal or stone how they want to be used, meditate with it, use a pendulum or simply go with your first instinct.
Just don’t think too hard about it. Your rational mind doesn’t always know the answer, but your subconscious mind does. Use your intuition and instinct and you’ll naturally make the perfect choice.
White/Clear: Clearing
Examples: Quartz, Moonstone, Selenite
Uses: White and clear healing crystals are very absorbent. They are perfect for learning and cleansing any type of energy. Many people use clear quartz in their meditation practices because it clears and calms the mind. Be sure to clean your quartz frequently because they do absorb so much.
Brown: Allowing
Examples: Tiger’s Eye, Petrified Wood, Halite
Uses: Brown healing crystals and stones are very grounding. When you think of brown crystals, think of a dirt path in the dark woods. This path shows you the way and protects you on your journey. That’s what brown stones do—guide, protect and clear the way. Use them when you’re trying to make room in your life for something like a new job or relationship.
Red: Energizing
Examples: Ruby, Garnet, Jasper
Uses: Red healing crystals have a lot of energy. You can remind yourself of this by thinking of your reaction to a red stop sign, a red traffic light or a red warning signal. Red invokes sudden surges of energy, so if you need a quick pick me up, you can carry around a red stone as a substitute for something unhealthy like a caffeinated beverage.
Orange: Releasing
Examples: Copper, Sunstone, Aragonite
Uses: You know when you feel really sick and you walk out into the sunshine and feel better? That’s because orange is simultaneously a soothing and energizing color. Orange healing stones release negative energy and clear out room for a boost of health energy. Use them when you’re feeling down in the dumps or you’re dragging your feet.
Yellow: Aligning
Examples: Amber, Sulphur, Mookaite
Uses: Yellow gemstones are great for reorganizing energy patterns. These healing crystals are perfect for times when you’re trying to instill a new habit or break an unhealthy one. Think of yellow stones like a really efficient made. They don’t just cleanse energy, they reorganize it.
Green: Balancing
Examples: Jade, Emerald, Malachite
Uses: Green gemstones are often used for physical healing because of their balancing properties. Often, our illnesses are a matter of too much of something. For example, digestive issues often stem from too much acid or too much unhealthy bacteria. While we need these things to survive, too much of them makes us sick. Green healing stones don’t get rid of negative energy; instead, they tip the scales in the right direction, redirecting our energy flows and balancing them out.
Blue: Communicating
Examples: Sapphire, Sodalite, Angelite
Uses: Just like the blue throat chakra, blue healing crystals are all about openness and communication. If you’re having trouble finding your truth, or you want the truth to be revealed about something, work with blue crystals for healing.
Indigo: Calming
Examples: Kyanite, Azurite, Lapis Lazuli
Uses: Sometimes, like gets really chaotic and you just want to relax and take it easy. Next time you want to treat yourself to a calming spa experience, use the soothing power of dark blue/indigo healing gemstones to mellow out anxious, fragile energy.
Violet: Uplifting
Examples: Amethyst, Iolite, Sugilite
Uses: Violet is one of the most powerful colors, because it vibrates at a very high frequency/wavelength. It is at the top of our color spectrum, combining both the warm and cool ends of all the colors we can see. In this way, anything violet connects you to higher plane of existence. Violet healing crystals are no exception, and they are perfect it you need to be uplifted, want to induce a spiritual experience or call on higher powers to guide you.
Black: Protecting
Examples: Tourmaline, Apache Tears, Obsidian
Uses: Black healing crystals deflect everything. They are strong and resilient, so they make perfect protecting crystals. If you want to repel any kind of energy, use black stones to drive those negative energies away from you.
Pink: Loving
Examples: Rose Quartz, Morganite, Rhodonite
Uses: Pink makes us think of romance, and that’s because the color pink is a combination of passionate red and clarifying white. But you don’t have to use pink healing crystals just for romance. They vibrate a compassionate, loving energy, so use them for anything that needs a little bit of sweetness. They’re great for deflecting anger, drawing in romance or just making you feel the love.
About The Author
Founded in 2003 by Vishen Lakhiani, Mindvalley Academy works with the best authors and the most innovative technology to provide learning experiences on personal growth, health and fitness, spirituality, productivity, mindfulness and more.
We serve over three million students, subscribers and followers worldwide, empowering our audience to lead healthier, happier lives and fulfill their greatest potential.We are ambitiously determined to change education globally and provide innovative, holistic education at all levels of life – from infancy to high school to late adulthood.
Our ultimate goal? To launch a school of growth and humanity for a billion people, unleashing the extraordinary in everyone, with the adamant belief that we can and will impact the world.
Even More Good Stuff
Opening the Third Eye: Powerful Ancient Practices for Activating the Pineal Gland and Expanding Consciousness
Yoga For Your Ayurvedic Body Type
The Science of Energy Medicine: How to Work With Subtle Energy for Better Health
6 Unique Healing Gifts for the Conscious and Spiritual People in Your Life
The Art of Love and Forgiveness: 4 Deep Practices for Cultivating Lasting Joy and Harmony in Your Life
Psychedelic Explorers Guide: The 6 Keys to Safely Tripping on Psychedelics for Deep Insight and Expansion of Consciousness
Share:
Permanent Link Share via Email
Becoming Superconscious: The Keys to Activating and Opening the Third Eye (Ajna) Chakra
The 5 Keys to Cognitive Health: How to Keep Your Brain Thriving at Any Age
0 Comments
Leave a reply Click here to cancel the reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Join the Community
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
Google+
Most Popular
How to Heal Your Digestive Problems Naturally 114317 views
The Six Levels of Higher Consciousness: How to Make the Shift 113592 views
Opening the Third Eye: Powerful Ancient Practices for Activating the Pineal Gland and Expanding Consciousness 108842 views
8 Powerful Ancient Qigong Exercises for Cultivating Healing Energy in the Body 100397 views
The Symptoms of Higher Consciousness: 18 Unmistakable Signs of Spiritual Awakening 100052 views
7 Sacred Herbs and Foods For Boosting Your Sex Drive and Optimizing Your Hormonal Balance 98355 views
The Eight Keys to Finding Meaningful Work 98126 views
Gotu Kola: The Many Benefits of the Ancient Herb of Enlightenment and Longevity 96493 views
The Art of Shifting Your Reality: 4 Deep Practices for Clearing Emotional Blockages and Harnessing the Power of Your Subconscious Mind 96327 views
4 Powerful Air Purifying Plants to Clean the Air in Your Home 95730 views
How to Master the Art of Meditation: A Complete Guide to the 10 Stages of Meditative Development 93710 views
20 Powerful Natural Remedies for Healing and Eliminating Inflammation and Pain 93317 views
Ashwagandha: The Ancient Indian Superherb That Rejuvenates Your Body and Brain From the Inside Out 91593 views
Shilajit: The Ancient Yogic Superfood That Rebuilds Your Body 90339 views
Treating Candida Naturally: The Top 17 Most Powerful Natural Antifungal Supplements and Herbs for Ridding the Body of Yeast 90191 views
The Ultimate Guide to CBD: Everything You Need to Know About the Miraculous Health Benefits of Cannabidiol 86572 views
Even More Good Stuff
Hair Care for People Who Care About the Planet: Organic, Natural Hair Products that Actually Work
The Body Clock Reset: How to Optimize Your Circadian Rhythm and Get Better Sleep Naturally
The Migraine Diet: What Foods to Eat and Avoid to Prevent Headaches
Growing A New Body: How To Completely Restore Your Health And Well-Being At Any Age
My Journey to Rythmia Life Advancement Center: The Land of Miracles
Dealing With Doggy Anxiety: How to Calm Your Pup Naturally When They're Feeling Stressed Out
Affiliate Disclosure: Certain products, tools and services we recommend on this site may be affiliate links. All the products we recommend are either things we use ourselves or have researched and confirmed are of the highest quality and integrity. Conscious Lifestyle Magazine is also a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. These programs allow us to provide quality content to you at no charge.
Download the App
About Us
Subscribe
full edition
Advertise
media kit
Affiliates
sign up today
Join the Community
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
Google+
© 2017 Conscious Lifestyle Magazine
Top