Eye-Opening Evidence: Baking Soda & Coconut Oil Can Kill Cancer
Home
About
Contact
Terms and Conditions
Healthy Life Tricks
Welcome to healthy life !
Home
Categories
Health
General
Healthy Food
Healthy Recipes
Weight Loss
Alternative Health
Diet and Nutrition
Fitness
Contact
Healthy Food
Eye-Opening Evidence: Baking Soda & Coconut Oil Can Kill Cancer
by Admin · December 18, 2015
This is a real life story, about a woman who suffered from basal cell carcinoma skin cancer. The skin cancer was located on the crown on her head. She was completely cured after her daughter insisted that she try baking soda paste and apply it directly on the affected cancer area. Azizo, the daughter, was really convincing. Her mom was against this method in the beginning, but Azizo, a respected writer and supporter of natural medicine searched for many articles about people who treated their skin cancer using this amazing combo – baking soda and coconut oil.
Her mom already had three surgeries and every time the skin cancer re-appeared and it was even worse than before. And, at last, her mom decided to trust her daughter and in her natural remedy against her skin disease. She started using baking soda and pure cold pressed organic coconut oil. She used the coconut oil instead of water. Her daughter, Azizo, applied the thick baking soda-coconut oil pasty mixture on the affected area. Azizo was aware of the fact that coconut oil has skin regenerative benefits. And she also knew that coconut oil is an effective add-on to the baking soda. When she applied the remedy on her mom’s skin, she simply applied it, without rubbing it on the affected area.
Azizo just used these prescription drugs – Polysporin Triple 3 Antibiotics, and she applied only at night time. She also says that you can use any other antibiotic ointment as a precaution against bacterial infections within the sore area. Another good option would be the colloidal silver soaked cotton, she says. You should know that you need to stop using the ointment when the wound closes. She kept applying baking soda and coconut oil, accompanied with cotton soaked in vinegar and taped to the skin. Azizo says that this will induce the penetration of baking soda to the basal cell carcinoma roots beyond the skin’s surface. Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) is also extremely beneficial for that purpose as well.
She used this homemade natural paste for 38 days, and her mom was completely cured from the skin cancer and her wound healed completely. You may know that this type of skin cancer is not deadly as melanoma. But, the bad thing is that it can continue spreading on the skin until it’s cured completely. Azizo in her baking soda treatment was using regular household baking soda, nothing fancy or expensive. And, of course, the rumors about aluminum in baking soda are totally misunderstood. The baking powder has aluminum in it, unless it’s labeled as aluminum free. The regular household baking soda provides alkaline environment, and we discussed on this topic already, that tumors can survive only in acidic environments.
Dramatic Life and Death Story
Vernon Johnston was diagnosed with stage III prostate cancer. He used the Veteran’s Administration to determine he had cancer. Vernon just got divorced and he was completely broke. Vernon’s prostate cancer just metastasized into the hip area and soon developed in stage IV cancer. He was supposed to be examined in few weeks, about the therapy he needed to follow. But, then, one of his sons recommended a few substances that could rapidly alkalize on a cellular level. They ordered cesium, but the shipment never arrived. Then, he used baking soda and blackstrap molasses. They used blackstrap molasses instead of maple syrup, so the Sugary Trojan Horse would wide open the cancer cells and they could receive the lightly alkaline influence of baking soda. This would eventually lead in complete destruction of the cancer cells.
Vernon used this homemade remedy and after two weeks, his bone scan determined no spreading of the cancer. The PSA levels dropped from 22 to 5 to 1 over the course of his treatment and pharmaceutical prescriptions. During his recovering treatment, Vernon spent many hours on the sunlight. He also did regular breathing exercises in order to increase the oxygen delivery to the cancer affected area, and then switched to a healthier plant based diet.
You can find his book online, “Vernon’s Dance With Cancer: After The Jolt”. In his book, Vernon did a fair share of positive imagery and there are many explanations in it. Just Google it and take a look. He wrote his book five years after the original baking soda alkaline producing treatment. He gives lectures and five years ago he is in good health. Yes, that’s true. Five years later he is cancer free.
Did you know that the work Alkaline is followed by the word producing? And some alkaline substances don’t produce alkalinity in the body. Also, some acidic foods, like lemons and limes, actually become alkaline in the body. So, you should know that you shouldn’t count on alkalized water to increase your pH from acidic to alkaline. Baking soda is alkaline and produces alkalinity.
The most famous advocate and representative of baking soda as a cure for cancer is the famous Dr. Mark Sircus. Dr. Mark Sircus published a book on the usage of baking soda in the treatment of cancer and other health afflictions called Sodium Bicarbonate – Full Medical Review.
Former Italian physician, Dr. Simoncini, is now working as a health practitioner. This person literally injects baking soda into the blood vessels that feet tumors. He is doing this method based on his experience as an oncology surgeon. Dr. Simoncini explains that there is no pharmaceutical anti-fungal that is more effective and safe than baking soda. Dr. Simoncini also claims that cancer thrives on fungal colonies. And, sometimes, fungal colonies create cancer as well. His statements resulted in removing his physician license in Italy.
So, what’s the bottom line? We all think that baking soda deserves more attention and examination. Baking soda should be considered, at least, as a complementary supplement for severe ailments. We all should consider baking soda as a total approach for minor health conditions. We really hope you enjoyed this post! Make sure you share it with your friends and family.
Thank You.
Source: www.realfarmacy.com
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Related
Share this post:
TwitterFacebookGoogle+PinterestLinkedinEmail
Comments
comments
Next story Garlic Kills 14 Kinds Of Cancer And 13 Types Of Infection. Why Don’t Doctors Prescribe It?
Previous story How to Detox Each Organ To Never Be Sick or Tired Again
You may also like...
Oregano Tea Recipe to Heal Strep Throat, Sinusitis, & Infections
November 4, 2016
Here’s What Happens if You Eat Raw Garlic on Empty Stomach Every Day
November 17, 2015
Here Is What Will Happen If You Eat One Banana Daily
June 28, 2015
Search Site
Recent Posts
Doctors shocked when cannabis oil cures woman of terminal cancer
How to Wash Your Face and Say Goodbye to Saggy Facial Skin and Wrinkles
Heartburn Pills Damage Your Heart, Kidneys and Bones…Here’s What You Can Do To Fix This
Maca Powder: The Perfect Food For Hormone Imbalance, Anxiety, Energy, Sleep, And Libido
5 Ways to Use Apple Cider Vinegar For Sinus Infection
Archives
Archives Select Month January 2019 March 2018 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014
Healthy Life Tricks © 2014. All Rights Reserved.