Can cell phones cause tumors?
Friday , 19 April 2019
Submit a Guest Post
Submit Your IT Blog
Subscribe to IT Blog
Tech Deals
Contact Us
Information Technology Blog
Information Technology Blog
Get FREE IT Resources Now →
Menu
Home
Galido.net Home – Main Website
IT Blog Home – Blog Home
Close
IT Blog
Tech Blogs Portal – IT Blog Feeds
CNET Reviews
IT News
Info World
Information Week
Reddit Technology
IT Blog – Galido Networks
Slashdot
Tech Crunch
The Next Web
Tech Blogs – Best Must Read Tech Resources 2019
ZDNet News
Your IT Blog Here
Close
Tech News Blog – Tech Related News
1 Terabyte of Samsung SSD Storage for Just $100
The Easiest Way to Learn Ethical Hacking
8 Technology Trends of 2019 That You Need to Know to Live an Easier Life
How AR Is Revolutionizing Advertisements
Important Things to Know About Android Smartphones and its New Launches
The Future of War is Cyber
3 Reasons Why Artificial Intelligence Can Revolutionize Education
2018 Roundup: The Best High Tech Cars Of The Year
Close
SEO Tips & Tricks – Optimize your site
The Easiest Way to Design Your Own Logos in Minutes
Tips To Finding the Best SEO Company to Work With
5 Ways to Use Digital Signage Solutions to Increase Customer Engagement
What You Should NOT Do As Part of Your Marketing Strategy
How To Use Printed Catalogs To Drive Online Sales in 2019
Choosing the Best SEO Hosting for Your Website
How to Select the Best Business Name
Why Your Logo Plays a Great Role in Marketing Your Business
Close
Misc Cool Blog – Misc Tech Related Content
Books for Start-up Companies in 2019
How to Avoid the Potential Security Risks Associated with Online Gaming?
What You Need to Know About Investing in Tech Stocks
Vendor Risk Management & Complying With GDPR
Website Conversions Can Be Boosted By The Color Psychology, Here’s How You Can Do That
What Makes a Bitcoin ATM a Good Business Idea?
Bitcoin Mining Profitability
What is Green Technology?
Close
Tech Tips and Tricks – Tech Blogs Tips and Tricks
Tips To Improve The Wi-Fi Signal Of Your Home-Best Long Range Wifi Antena
Tech Blogs – Best Must Read Tech Resources 2019
Best IT and Tech Blogs – Must Read Information Technology Resources 2019
Website Server Planning Tips
How To Reduce IT Costs
Preventing Data Breaches: Best Practices
Guide to Properly Dispose of Your Old Hard Drives
Top Tips to Improve the Speed of your VPN
Close
Search
Search
Google Search
Close
Close
IT Education
Sign Up For Free IT Education – Free eBooks, Tech Downloads and More
Close
Participate
Submit an Article – Contribute to Our IT Blog
Submit Your IT Blog – Submit your site to our directory
Join Our IT Community – Enter your email for free resources
Close
Tech Deals
Tech Deals & Books
Gaming Monitors under $200
Best Laptop under $300
Best SSD Drives under $130
Routers under $100
Mechanical Keyboards under $50
Tech Gifts
Close
Categories
Categories Select Category Artificial Intelligence Augmented & Virtual Reality Automobiles Backups Blockchain Blogs Business Clothing Cloud CMS Consulting Cool Deals Cool Gadgets Cool Websites Datacenter Education Featured – Home Free Zone Gaming General General Technology Google Green Hacking Hardware Health News Health Tech Infographic Information Technology Information Technology Blog – Featured Investing IT & Tech Blogs IT Gadgets Jobs Linux Tips Mac tips Marketing Misc Misc Cool Misc Gadgets Misc Tech Blog – Featured Mobile Networking New Gadgets & Hardware Old/No Repost Online Tools Personal Blog Planning Programming Recommended Business Robotics Security SEO & Marketing – Featured SEO Tips & Tricks Server Smarthome Social Media Software Storage Tech Blogs Portal Tech Blogs Tips & Tricks Tech Gadgets Tech News Blog Troubleshooting Tutorial/How To’s Uncategorized Useful Favorites Virtualization Weapons Websites & Ecommerce
Home » IT & Tech Blogs » Information Technology » Health Tech » Can cell phones cause tumors?
Can cell phones cause tumors?
Because cell phones usually are held near the head when being used, a concern has been whether they might cause or contribute to tumors or cancer.
Contents
Do Cell Phones Cause Tumors?
What do Lab Studies Suggest?
Avoid the Risk of Possible Tumor Causing Cell Phone Radiation
Do Cell Phones Cause Tumors?
Some studies have found a possible link to cancer and tumors, however it will take decades for studies to find an actual direct link. A few studies have looked at possible links to other types of cancer, such as:
Malignant (cancerous) brain tumors such as gliomas
Skin cancer
Testicular cancer
Non-cancerous tumors of the brain such as meningiomas
Non-cancerous tumors of the nerve connecting the brain to the ear (vestibular schwannomas, also known as acoustic neuromas)
Non-cancerous tumors of the salivary glands
In most cases neither type of study provides enough evidence on its own to show if something causes cancer in people, so researchers continue to look at both lab-based and human studies.
What do Lab Studies Suggest?
Some scientists have reported that the RF waves from cell phones produce effects in human cells that might possibly help tumors grow. This study was done in lab dishes. Several studies in rats and mice have looked at whether RF energy might promote the development of tumors caused by other known carcinogens, and so far, these studies did not find evidence of tumor promotion.
In studies that have found a possible link show an increased risk of tumors or cancer. For example, several studies published by the same research group in Sweden have reported an increased risk of tumors on the side of the head where the cell phone was held, particularly with 10 or more years of use. Thus, it is hard to determine what to make of these findings because most studies by other researchers have not had the same results, however time is needed to verify if these results are actually positive.
Based on the available evidence, some expert agencies have evaluated the cancer-causing potential of cell phones and RF waves. In general, they agree that the evidence of a possible link is limited, and more research is needed to look at possible long-term effects.
Avoid the Risk of Possible Tumor Causing Cell Phone Radiation
Consider Selecting Cell Phone Radiation Protection
The cell phone health warning debate is almost over. And the message is clear, do not hold your cell phone next to your body. Even cell phone manufacturers no longer hide this fact with warnings published in user manual or OS. (Settings, General, About, Legal, RF Exposure).
Radiation Blocking Cell Phone Cases are an excellent way to reduce the risks. But let the buyer beware. Not all suppliers seem to know what they are doing when it comes to providing radiation protection.
The Best: Flip cover cases if using the proper shielding material are the best engineered design to protect the head and body from cell phone radiation. We found Cruz Cases (www.CruzCases.com) offers one of the best solutions with a quality constructed case with very effective radiation with RFID blocking.
The Worst: Back mounted phone cases cannot block the radiation transmitted out of the front of the phone. We found one example Pong Cases only blocking radiation towards the back of the case. blocks radiation for the hand but no protection for the brain or body. We give Pong Cases a Thumbs down.
In Summary flip cover cases block radiation directed toward the head. Stay away from the back mounted cases, stickers placed over the phone speaker. These options provide little to no protection.
Share
tweet
Previous 10 Reasons to Choose CrateJoy, An Emerging Marketplace
Next Best Practices to Secure IT Servers and Infrastructure
Related Articles
4 Common Mobile App Budgeting Blunders and How to Avoid Them
April 1, 2019
Tech Blogs – Best Must Read Tech Resources 2019
March 22, 2019
Best IT and Tech Blogs – Must Read Information Technology Resources 2019
March 19, 2019
iPhone or Android: What Does Your Smartphone Tell About You?
February 14, 2019
How do Push Notifications Work in Web Applications?
February 12, 2019
Important Things to Know About Android Smartphones and its New Launches
February 3, 2019
Check Also
5 Ways to Improve the Mobile Experience of Your ECommerce Business
Over the past few years, more and more people are turning to mobile devices as …
IT Community: Just In
Any form of threatening, harassing, or violence / physical harm towards anyone will result in a ban
Got a tech question or want to discuss tech? Weekly /r/Technology Tech Support / General Discussion Thread
Microsoft refused to sell facial recognition tech to law enforcement
You can now download the source code for all Infocom text adventure classics - Yes, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and Zork are both included.
Werner Herzog: 'Piracy Has Been The Most Successful Form of Distribution Worldwide'
Google accused of sabotaging Firefox, again. Google had intentionally slowed down the YouTube loading performance of Firefox and Edge. Google “switched to using a JavaScript library for YouTube that they knew wasn’t supported by Firefox,”
US facial recognition will cover 97 percent of departing airline passengers within four years
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez quits Facebook, says social media is a health risk
Facebook bans far right groups and leaders
Mozilla details Pyodide, which brings Python to browsers
A Mystery Agent Is Doxing Iran's Hackers and Dumping Their Code
Utah Bans Police From Searching Digital Data Without A Warrant, Closes Fourth Amendment Loophole
In Seattle, Facebook Blocks Political Ads from One City Council Candidate While Running Ads from Her Opponent
Facebook now says its password leak affected ‘millions’ of Instagram users
The French publisher behind the 'Assassin’s Creed' series is donating half a million Euros and its detailed research to help rebuild Notre-Dame Cathedral
WhatsApp Has Become A Hotbed For Spreading Nazi Propaganda In Germany
WhatsApp’s latest feature blocks users from taking chat screenshots
Facebook bans far right groups and leaders
Kubuntu 19.04 is released today
Facebook 'unintentionally uploaded' email contacts from 1.5M users
The Weather Channel knocked off air by 'malicious software attack'
Student used ‘USB Killer’ device to destroy $58,000 worth of college computers
Mozilla WebThings: an open platform for monitoring and controlling devices over the web
You can now download the source code for all Infocom text adventure classics
Samsung's folding phone breaks for reviewers
Information Technology Blog
Galido.net
Information Technology Blog
provides you with information and links from tech blogs to computer tips, tricks, solutions, news and relevant information to IT related topics. Information Technology Blog features a collection of tech blogs containing links to information technology related software, hardware, news, cool sites, news on gadgets, where to get them, search engine optimization, and more.
Google Plus Author: Los Angeles | Orange County IT Consulting
Subscribe to Tech Blog:
Social
Tech Blogs – Best Must Read Tech Resources 2019
March 22, 2019
The Next Web
March 17, 2019
Tech Crunch
March 17, 2019
Slashdot
March 17, 2019
IT News
August 14, 2016
Information Week
August 16, 2013
Galido.net Tech Deals
Best Laptops Under $200
Best Laptops Under $300
Featured Resources
Blog Roll
Tech
Yeastar IP PBX System
Mobile App Development Company in Austin
Crowdfunding Software
Best IT Blog
Free Technical Docs
JTAG IEEE 1149.1 Standard
Blackhawk JTAG Emulators
Deals & Gadgets
Tech Deals
Newegg Promo Code
Savvy Shopper Services
Vape Active
Yocan Vaporizers
Slick Vapes
Trucker Tool
Marketing
Inbound Marketing Blog
© 2019 Galido Networks | Information Technology Blog | Privacy Policy | *As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
Do NOT follow this link or you will be banned from the site!
Submit an Article!
Free article listing you say? Why yes!
Contributor articles with content that does not self-advertise a company or that does not intend to manipulate search results or profit in any way are FREE. If you are however interested in advertising or publishing an article that promotes your brand or service, please see our Fiverr special and post your article for as low as $5. If you have questions or inquiries or have a custom request, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Submit ArticleFiverr Special