dry socket Archives - Authority Dental
Home
About Us
Dental Blog
History of Dentistry
Contact Us
Tag - dry socket
Wisdom Teeth Removal Recovery
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
In this article we will explain to you the steps involved in wisdom teeth removal recovery. Following wisdom teeth extraction, it is important to maintain cleanliness and good oral hygiene. You can use salt water rinse and gently rinse, but try not to over-stimulate the extraction socket. Four days post extraction, you can brush your teeth but stay away from the extraction site. At this stage, it is better not to use oral rinse, but salt water rinse are recommended and will not dislodge the clots. Avoid touching the area with your fingers and rubbing it with your tongue.
However, do not rinse your mouth, brush your teeth, use a mouthwash, or spit during the first 24 hours following the extraction procedure. Rinse with warm salt water after meals and every 2 hours while awake. Do this for about a week after the surgery, mixing half a teaspoon of table salt and eight ounces of water. Resume brushing after the first 24 hours. To be on the safe side, you may slosh water instead of swishing it. Tilt your head from side to side and to get the water out, tilt it over the sink.
You do not have to spit in this way. In any case, it is not recommended to brush your teeth during the first 24 hours because it may open up the wound. This is going to hurt quite bad, and it is better to wait until the next day. These precautions are necessary to avoid complications such as bleeding, infections, dry socket, etc. Once the extraction site heals, you can rinse with a non-alcohol mouthwash which kills bacteria in the mouth and helps prevent infections.
It is important to keep the blood clot intact because if it is lost, this may cause swelling, discomfort, and pain, and will delay the healing process. What is more, the nerve endings will be directly exposed, and this may cause immense pain. It is important to keep the wound clean, avoid smoking, and take steps to prevent complications. Your oral surgeon may recommend oral antibiotics, an antiseptic solution to be applied to the wound, or antibacterial gels and mouthwashes which are applied before and following the surgical procedure.
Knowing Whether Tooth Extraction Blood Clot Has Formed
Authority Dental
Dental Information
3 min read
Tooth extraction blood clot if not fully treated can lead to dry socket. Blood clots are considered to be very crucial when it comes to the healing process after a successful tooth extraction.
Loss of blood clot can trigger an infection after the extraction. If the blood does not clot quickly, the healing process after tooth extraction can be prolonged.
It is highly advisable for a doctor to be contacted as soon as possible when this happens as the blood clot can easily be dislodged within the first twenty four hours after the tooth extraction.
This can be achieved by rinsing vigorously. The process of suctioning via a straw can as well help in dislodging a blood clot. On the other hand, it is believed that hot fluids e.g. coffee can easily dissolve the blood clot.
How to Tell if Blood Clot Formed After Tooth Extraction
There are various ways that one can use to know whether a blood clot has formed after tooth extraction.
Read on to learn these ways.
One way that you can use to determine whether tooth extraction blood clot is keeping the gauze over the tooth extraction area is to apply some pressure for a duration of about an hour. Some people would ask where the gauze will come from. Well, in most cases, once you have been done a tooth extraction, the dentist will provide you with gauze in your mouth over the area that has been treated.
After an hour, you are free to remove the gauze keenly to find out whether the bleeding has stopped or not.
The next step that you will be required to do in knowing whether tooth extraction blood clot has formed is applying more gauze that will aid in controlling any bleeding for the first twenty four hours. In most cases, people use a tea bag that has moistened which is considered to work effectively.
This can be used as a substitute and at the same time it helps in the formation of clotting because of the presence of tannic acid(1). In case the bleeding persists after the twenty four hours are over, it is worthwhile to contact your dentist as soon as possible.
The formation of tooth extraction blood clot starts once you notice a dark, red like substance. At times, it may feel like a soft piece of chocolate once you touch it. When touching the site, you are highly advised to be very careful and ensure that you touch it if you find it quite daunting to see the blood clot.
Conclusion
However, this will greatly be determined with the locality where the extraction has been done. While doing this, it is important to utilize the services of a dental mirror to help you during this process. In case you find it necessary to touch the spot, you should do it briefly but if you cannot see the dark clot, you shouldn’t do it. Avoid brushing your teeth but instead rinse it gently using a solution of salty and warm water for the following consecutive days
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9759559 ↩
Tooth Extraction Complications
Authority Dental
Dental Information
3 min read
There are several tooth extraction complications that are requiring ample precaution to avoid them from causing adverse effects. It is important for a patient to note that with this type of surgery, there can be complications or even problems thereafter. In addition to this, a patient is supposed to know that the teeth located in the bottom jaw tend to have more extraction complications as compared to the top teeth.
While this is the case, patients should stay prepared for any complications that may occur in order to know how well you can be able to curb them. Once the extraction has been carried out, you will experience some swelling, pain as well as bleeding. However, all these become a problem if they persist. When this happens, it is important to contact or see the doctor as soon as possible. In addition, in case you experience the provided complications below, be on the alert to contact your doctor as soon as you can for the necessary precaution to be taken.
One of the major tooth extraction complications is dry socket which is pain that persists for several days. It usually takes place when there is blood clot dislodged from the socket. When this happens the bone underneath is exposed which n return causes severe pain. While this takes place, your doctor will be prompted to restitch the region and at the same time prescribe antibiotics that you will use to guard against infection.
Allergic reaction is one of the major tooth extraction complications which occur when the jawbone, tongue or throat happens to swell to the point where it causes difficulty in breathing. This is a clear indication that you have an allergic reaction which requires you to call your dentist immediately.
In case you experience bad breathe a week shortly after receiving the extraction as you may have some infection. It is the obligation of the doctor to provide you with an antibiotic that will help in preventing the infection. You can as well use warm salt water to rinse the mouth in order to reduce the chances of infection.
Excessive bleeding is one other major tooth extraction complications. In case you experience severe bleeding without ceasing it simply implies that there is a damage done on the blood vessel during the procedure and this means that you require further treatment from your dentist as soon as possible.
However, in case you are involved in smoking or drinking directly from a straw, you will experience minor bleeding for a few days. It is therefore important to avoid this so that your dentist may not end up restitching and packing the extraction area for it to heal.
Alveolar nerve damage is yet one of the major tooth extraction complications. In most cases, this is evident when your bottom teeth tend to lose sensation once a tooth extraction has been done. This simply implies that maybe your dentist has damaged the alveolar nerve. In most case, the nerve sensation should basically come back in 3 months.
Wisdom Teeth Bruising, Causes, and Recovery
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
Wisdom teeth bruising and swelling normally disappears in a couple of days (2-3 to 9). In fact, bruising is not common in patients who do not take medications that thin the blood and those without bleeding disorders. While bruising is not very common, it is still possible. Swelling normally increases during the first 2 days and begins to subside afterwards. Using ice during the first day helps minimize it.
With simple extraction, there is normally little bleeding, swelling, and bruising. A more complex extraction procedure – when there is wisdom teeth pain and complications – may lead to more bleeding, swelling, and wisdom teeth bruising. Your dentist or oral surgeon will give you post-treatment instructions in order to minimize such side effects.
In some people, the lymph nodes swell, and this may indicate an active infection involving their wisdom teeth. Dry socket is not only painful, but it can result in an infection causing lymph nodes to swell. In this case, it is important to visit the dentist’s office, and they may prescribe an antibiotic or anti-inflammatory to deal with the infection.
Note that younger patients who undergo wisdom teeth extraction have less swelling, bruising, and muscle stiffness, and experience less post-surgery discomfort than older patients. The reason is that young people have the ability to repair, re-grow, and heal sinus and nerve injuries. The maxillofacial surgery causes almost no permanent complications among young patients.
Moreover, young people and teens have lower rates of postoperative infection because they have strong immune systems. Then, the roots of wisdom teeth are not deep in the jaw in young patients, and less bone has to be removed. This means that the surgical site is less sore after the removal procedure. In teens, the socket defect and surgical defect is small and closes quickly, making recovery faster and easier. Thus, wisdom teeth bruising, infections, and other complications are less common in young patients.
To minimize post-extraction side effects, it is recommended not to smoke during the first 12 hours. Smoking interferes with bleeding and can cause bleeding to occur. To control the bruising and swelling, it is recommended to apply cold packs, which act to slow circulation. Cold packs should be used during the first 24 hours and placed at the site of swelling. Use in cycles – twenty minutes on and twenty minutes off.
Wisdom Teeth Food Ideas: Plenty of Options
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
3 min read
Post-extraction of wisdom teeth food ideas are one of the first things that comes to mind. Generally, it is recommended to have soft foods such as soups, puddings and gelatin. Other foods to include in your diet are oatmeal, mashed potatoes, milkshakes, scrambled eggs, and Jell-O. Solid foods can be added as healing progresses. It is important not to have solid foods at first as to avoid the occurrence of dry socket, bleeding, and causing additional trauma.
Wisdom Teeth Food
Thus, dentists recommend eating liquid, soft foods that do not require chewing. Spicy foods, chewy foods, hard foods, and crunchy foods should be avoided. Spicy, hot foods and hot soups are not recommended. Instead, have soft fruits like strawberries, watermelon, and bananas, yogurt, and porridge.
You can have apple sauce, which is a good choice following wisdom teeth removal. Apple sauce is an excellent source of dietary fiber and is rich in vitamin C. You can have a cup of apple sauce as an afternoon snack, or you can start the day with it. Another good idea is to have milkshakes and smoothies, which are packed with vitamins and proteins.
What you can do is pour a glass of milk into the blender and mix it with fruits of your choice, such as blueberries, strawberries, or bananas. Adding your favorite ice cream or some yogurt will make the texture creamier. Yogurt is high in protein and calcium, and the intake of calcium is important for maintaining healthy teeth and bones. This makes it a nutritional and enjoyable snack.
In general, soft foods are safe foods because no or little chewing is required and will sustain you until you can add other foods to your diet. Post-extraction of wisdom teeth food ideas can vary but generally, you should opt for foods that are easy to swallow, non-acidic, and liquid. As a rule, the less viscous the food you consume post-extraction, the better.
Acidic foods and beverages are not recommended meaning that you should avoid carbonated drinks such as soda or coke. Carbonated drinks are to be avoided because they act to weaken the stitches and dissolve blood clots. The same goes for alcohol and juices that contain citric acid.
Following the extraction of wisdom teeth food ideas are not limited to milkshakes and soft fruits. You can also try the baby food isle at the local grocery store. You may be surprised but there are some tasty and eatable foods out there.
Wisdom Teeth Jaw Pain – Causes for Its Occurrence
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
3 min read
Wisdom teeth jaw pain may occur in persons who are experiencing muscle spasms. In many cases, nite guards can be helpful, but physio and active massage may be required as well. If this doesn’t work, patients are advised to have radiographs done as to check whether there is something unusual in the bone. On the other hand, wisdom teeth jaw pain may be unrelated to jaws/ teeth. Consultation with a neurologist may be helpful given that the problem is very general.
Pain in the area of the jaw may also indicate an active infection or a dry socket. It is a good idea to check whether the lymph nodes feel swollen. If it is a throbbing pain, this may be associated with a dry pocket. Normally this type of wisdom teeth pain is quite intense, and it cannot be mistaken. If you have a dry socket, the nerves and bone tissue in it are exposed to food, fluids, and air.
This can result in intense pain which is not limited to the dry socket. It can be along the nerves, which radiate to the eye and ear found on the same side. According to some practitioners, it is a ‘deep tissue’ pain(1) meaning that the brain has difficulty recognizing it. It is hard to identify the source if the whole side of the head is throbbing.
Wisdom teeth jaw pain is also associated with partially erupted teeth. In many cases, they have a gum pouch over the crown, which represents an excess gum tissue. It can cause pain if it gets infected. The gums start swelling, and the opposite tooth bites into the gum tissue. To avoid biting the swollen gum, the patient either shifts away from his normal bite or keeps his mouth open.
Avoiding the swollen gum tissue results in a bad bite, forcing the jaw joints into wrong positions. This, on the other hand, causes discomfort and pressure in the jaw structures. The joints become tender and inflamed, with the bad bite forcing them to push into the ears. The jaw muscles attempt to fix the problem, but they begin to hurt and go into spasm.
This is yet another reason why patients experience jaw pain associated with wisdom teeth. One complication of tooth infections is that pus may enter the jaw muscles and irritate them. Patients find it difficult to open their mouth, which causes headache.
http://www.positivehealth.com/article/bodywork/treating-chronic-pain-deep-tissue-vs-muscle-release-technique ↩
Wisdom Teeth Smoking: How It Delays the Healing Process
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
After the extraction of wisdom teeth smoking is not recommended, and many report developing a dry socket because of smoking following the procedure. Smoking is also a reason for wisdom teeth removal according to the University of Maryland Medical Centre.
Periodontal disease is common among smokers and smoking cigars, pipes, and cigarettes causes gum inflammation. It results in a more intense production of cytokines, which leads to periodontal disease. Moreover, wisdom teeth are a fertile ground for different bacteria to grow which can result in periodontal disease. Thus, there are two factors that increase the risk of dental conditions for which extraction may be required.
As said, smoking may cause a dry socket to develop, and it is recommended to avoid smoking during the first 24 hours. During this period, a blood clot forms over the extraction site. This clot is very important, and it keeps patients from experiencing alveolar osteitis or dry socket.
According to the American Dental Association, this may require special treatment such as pain medications and medicated gauze dressings. Sucking actions, for example, dragging on a cigarette and drinking from a straw, can dislodge this clot, increasing the risk of developing dry socket. For this reason, smoking should be avoided during the first day following the extraction.
After the removal of wisdom teeth smoking is not advisable, and some recommend not to smoke for two or three weeks after the surgery. Smoking puts fine, hot particles in the mouth, and they increase the risk of infection. Mouthwash does not help with this and in fact, using mouthwash during the first couple of days can contribute to or cause dry socket to develop.
Persons with severe addiction who must smoke are advised to wait at least a couple of days (three to five). It is important not to suck rigorously because this can dislodge the blood clot. Nicotine patches may be of help so that patients avoid the urge to lit a cigarette. If possible, avoid smoking until the extraction site has healed completely.
Finally, after the extraction of wisdom teeth smoking should be avoided because it makes blood thinner. This delays or stops the clotting process, and the wound takes longer to heal.
Wisdom Teeth Dry Socket, Complications, and Treatment
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
Wisdom teeth dry socket represents a hole in the bone at the site at which the wisdom tooth has been pulled. After the tooth is removed, a blood clot forms inside the socket, and it protects the bone tissue and nerves underneath.
In some cases, the blood clot dissolves or becomes dislodged several days after the removal.
This leaves the nerve and bone exposed to fluids, food, and air. Possible complications include severe pain and infection that may last for 5 to 6 days.
Wisdom Teeth Dry Socket Symptoms
Who is likely to get a wisdom teeth dry socket after a tooth is extracted? In this group are women who use birth control pills, persons who have poor oral hygiene, those who smoke, have a history of dry socket, have wisdom teeth pulled, and have had a complicated extraction surgery.
In general, dry socket, also referred to as alveolar osteitis represents a painful condition. This is a common complication after wisdom tooth extractions, including the extraction of an impacted wisdom tooth. If dry socket develops, pain typically begins 1 to 3 days after removal.
Among them are visible bone inside the socket and total or partial loss of the blood clot, as a result of which you can notice a dry or empty looking socket.
Another symptom is severe wisdom teeth pain a couple of days after the tooth removal procedure. Unpleasant taste in the mouth is yet another symptom, as well as foul odor and bad breath in the mouth.
Another is pain radiating from the dry socket to the neck, temple, eye, or ear on the side of the face where extraction took place. Finally, swollen lymph nodes on the neck or jaw indicate that dry socket has occurred.
What are the ways to treat wisdom teeth dry socket?
It is important to visit to dentist’s office where the dentist will have the tooth socket cleaned and will remove any debris and other particles from the hole. Then, the dentist will place a special passed or a medicated dressing in the hole to speed up the healing process. You may have to visit the dentist’s office for a dressing change every day until the pain lessens and the socket heals.
The dentist may prescribe you some antibiotic so that the socket does not become infected.
1 2 Next
Categories
Bad Breath5
Braces9
Cavities3
Dental Implants2
Dental Information28
Gum disease9
Root Canal1
Teeth Whitening10
Toothache13
Wisdom Teeth26
Featured Posts
Dealing with Toothache at Home
Abscessed Tooth
Wisdom Teeth Decay, Symptoms, and Prevention
Tips for Healthy Teeth
Wisdom Teeth and Pregnancy, Infections, and
DMCA Protected
Medical Disclaimer
Authoritydental.com is only for information purposes only. Always get guidance about a medical condition from a health care professional.
Stay With Me
Copyright © 2018. AuthorityDental.com
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Medical Disclaimer
SiteMap
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy