Mineral Himalayan Pink Salt In India |Fine Grain Salt Gurgaon
Free shipping on online orders of 500 or more.
Login / Register
Login / Register
0
Shopping Cart
Call Us
+91-124-492-4821
Home
Weight Loss
Health Food
Cookies
Healthy Flours
Pink Salt
Nuts And Seeds
Others
Beauty
Hair Oil
Face Packs
Bath Salts
MENU
Home
Weight Loss
Health Food
Cookies
Healthy Flours
Pink Salt
Nuts And Seeds
Others
Beauty
Hair Oil
Face Packs
Bath Salts
Home >
Health Food >
Pink Salt
NutroActive Mineral Salt Himalayan Pink Salt Fine Grain (0.5-1mm) 350 gm
` 450
Quantity
NaN out of 5 stars
5 Star
0
4 Star
0
3 star
0
2 star
0
1 star
0
0 customer reviews
Buy Now
Add To Cart
Check Delivery Details at Your Location
Check
FSSAI Certified Laboratory Report – An Authentic FSSAI Certified Lab Report of Mineral Salt showing major minerals like Sodium, Chloride, Sulphur, Potassium, Calcium, Magnesium, Iodine, Fluoride, Iron, Zinc, Copper, Manganese, Chromium is attached in the image (at left).
100% Natural Himalayan Pink Salt - Mineral Salt is 100% natural, food grade, premium quality Himalayan Pink Salt directly sourced from the salt mines located in Himalayan Region. Mineral Salt does not contain any anti-caking or free flowing additives. Himalayan salt has become well known for its amazing health benefits.
Mineral Rich – Himalayan Pink Salt is said to contain 84 minerals as compared to 2 Minerals (Sodium And Chloride) in normal white salt. When you consume this Pink Salt, you actually get less sodium intake per serving than regular Table Salt. It contains essential trace elements and adds more minerals to your diet and helps maintain optimal health. Himalayan Pink Salt’s rich mineral content may also help balance body’s pH levels.
Tastes Great - Our 100% natural Himalayan Pink Salt tastes great and can be used in similar way as Table Salt. Replace your White Salt with Mineral Salt for Culinary & Cooking. Mineral Salt is great for seasoning meats, grilled vegetables, a variety of salads, soups & stews. It can be used as a flavourful salt for baking use. People also use Mineral Salt to re-mineralize their RO water.
Available In 5 Grain Sizes - Mineral Salt is available in Extra-Fine Grain (0-0.5mm), Fine Grain (0.5-1mm), Sugar Size Grain(1-2mm), Medium Size Grain(3-5mm) and Coarse Grain (5-8mm) sizes. If you’re looking for a very small size grain try our best selling Extra-Fine size. If you want a larger grain to grind yourself try our Medium or Coarse Grain size. Please see grain comparison image(at left) to choose the grain that best suits your needs.
View More
Rate & Review
Share
Product Description
Desrciption
Mineral nutrient are essentially required by all living organism. Major minerals available in human body are calcium, phosphorus, potassium, sulfur, sodium, chlorine, magnesium, iron, cobalt, copper, zinc, molybdenum, iodine, selenium etc. Mineral salt is having several health benefits due to its high mineral content. It provides 84 different types on minerals. Mineral salt can be used in similar way as table salt. Health benefit of mineral salt 1. Weight Reduction- Minerals are must for several metabolic processes in body; deficiency of minerals may lead to slow metabolic function. Slow metabolism causes weight gain even on low calorie diet. Mineral salt provides 84 minerals to improve metabolic power of the body. 2. Water retention- Water retention is due electrolyte imbalance and PH imbalance. Mineral salt helps in reducing water retention by providing required minerals. 3. Muscle cramp- Potassium and Calcium are important minerals for muscle contraction and relaxation, their imbalance causes muscle cramp in legs; abdomen etc. Mineral salt provides all the minerals required by our muscles for relaxation. 4. Food craving- Constant craving for salty food indicates that there is imbalance of minerals in the body. Daily use of mineral salt helps in balancing minerals in our body. 5. Weak Bones- 25% of our body minerals are stored in bones. Whenever there is any mineral deficiency in the body, minerals stored in bones gets consumed causing weak bones. Mineral salt provides 84 minerals to ensure proper mineral supply to body. 6. Skin condition- Taking bath with mineral salt water helps healing dry and itchy skin. The mineral salt makes the water alkaline and mineral rich which helps in healing skin. Disclaimer: This product is not intended to treat, cure or diagnose any disease.
From the manufacturer
About NutroActive
NutroActive is driven by a passion for good health. One must eat healthy food and lead an active life, and that's why our tagline says” Eat Healthy Get Active”. All our food products are developed to provide maximum nutritional benefits to help you maintain a balanced diet and lead a healthy life.
NutroActive Mineral Salt
Mineral nutrient is essentially required by all living organism. Major minerals available in the human body are calcium, phosphorus, potassium, sulfur, sodium, chlorine, magnesium, iron, cobalt, copper, zinc, molybdenum, iodine, selenium etc. This Nutroactive Himalayan Pink Mineral Salt contains 84 types of minerals which help in weight management, water retention in the body, useful for relieving muscle cramps, and also good for improving the skin condition.
Natural & Additive Free Salt
Mineral salt is the naturally occurring original salt, hand-mined from foothills of the Great Himalayas. Himalayan salt is harvested as large blocks and then it is crushed into the medium, small and very small pieces. Finest quality rocks are used for cooking. Himalayan Pink Salt contains 84 minerals that has a lot of health benefits for the human body, and can be used in the similar way as the table salt.
Cooking Salt for good health
Himalayan Pink Mineral salt provides benefits of different minerals which are required for different metabolic functions in our body. Every biochemical process in our body requires some co-factors. Minerals are important co-factor in many biochemical processes. As this Rock Salt is rich in several minerals hence it is becomes a healthier option for us.
Mineral Salt Water for Motions
If you are suffering from long-term, mild or severe grade of motion passing problem then taking mineral salt water daily empty stomach in morning will be of a great help to you. Add a pinch of Mineral Salt in a glass of lukewarm water to make Mineral Salt Water. Take 1-3 glass of warm mineral salt water daily empty stomach early morning as soon as you wake up to improve bowel cleaning problems.
View larger
Salt bath
With this Himalayan Pink Mineral Salt, you can enjoy a body spa.
Add Mineral Salt to your warm bath water, this will give you detoxifying, rejuvenating and relaxing experience. The salt water contains electrical charges of the minerals along with trace minerals. A salt bath helps draw out toxins, deep cleanses the skin, and helps cleanse the body energetically. For a powerful detoxifying experience, add 1-2 pounds of Himalayan Salt to dissolve in warm water. Please remember don’t use very hot water rather it should be comfortably warm, stay only for 15-20 minutes in salt bath.
Salt Shaker
Add Himalayan Pink Mineral Salt to your Salt Shaker for good health. Sprinkle Mineral Salt upon food to make it tastier. Mineral salt is a low sodium salt. High Sodium intake is not advisable as it may cause health-related complications. Mineral Salt provides multiple health benefits like maintaining pH of body, mineral balance etc.
Alkaline water
Alkaline Water has several benefits especially for people who eat junk food very often. It’s very easy to make alkaline water.
Take 250ml water, add 1-2 pinch of pink mineral salt, squeeze a fresh lemon juice and add 1- 2 pinch of baking soda. This combination helps in easing acidity instantly. If lemon is not available you can make Alkaline water just by adding baking soda and Himalayan mineral salt also.
Steam Inhaler
Most of us use water steam inhaler at home for several purposes. Efficacy of this inhaler can be increased by adding pink mineral salt into it. Slowly and deeply inhale the vapor. Warm air open up the nasal pipe and works as decongestant. The salt particle in vapor works as antibacterial, antimicrobial which detoxifies the nasal pipe. This helps in reducing cough, chest congestion and cleaning the sinuses.
Fresh Lemonade
The Himalayan Pink Mineral salt is an excellent choice to make healthy lemonade for guests at your home.
Take 250ml of water and add 1tsp of sugar. Mix it well until all sugar gets dissolved then add 1 freshly squeezed lemon juice, some fresh mint leaves, few cubes of ice. Stir gently with a spoon to make it uniform. Enjoy the lemonade in hot summers with friends and family.
ORS drink
Sugar and salt can be used to make oral rehydration salt at home. It’s important in diarrhea or vomiting.
First thoroughly wash your hands with soap and water before preparing the drink. Make sure you have a clean pitcher or bottle ready. Take 1 liter of clean water and add a half-teaspoon of Himalayan Pink Mineral salt and 2 tablespoons of sugar. You can use granulated or powdered sugar. Stir well to dissolve both sugar and salt. Always drink freshly prepared ORS drink.
Write Your Reviews
Star Rate
Title
Comment
Help
Home
Contact Us
FAQ
Blog
NutroActive
About Us
Terms & Condition
Privacy Policy
Return Policy
Payments Method
Keep In Touch
Copyright © NutroActive | All Rights Reserved.