Blog Archives - Coffee Love
“Fear, uncertainty and discomfort are your compasses toward growth.” Unknown
Coffee Love
Home
My shoebox
A bit about me
Just for sharing >
Tips, ideas, hints ... and such
Stay the Course >
Tribute to our Military >
We do Remember
Hungry? >
Appetizers
Bread
Casseroles
Crockpot Love
Meats
Veggies
Desserts - oh my!
Various Links
Heart Blog
Coffee Thoughts
Our ^Angels^ >
My Sweetheart
^Angel^ Memories
Let's go! >
Where?
My Life List
Calendar
Picture Albums
Genealogy
Memories
Kids & grandkids
Heart touches
Contact Me
Cinnamon & Honey
9/24/2018
0 Comments
Great information!! Cinnamon and Honey...!
Drug companies won't like this one getting around.
Facts on Honey and Cinnamon:
It is found that a mix of honey and cinnamon cures most diseases. Honey is produced in most of the countries of the world. Scientists of today also note honey as very effective medicine for all kinds of diseases. Honey can be used without side effects which is also a plus.Today's science says that even though honey is sweet, when it is taken in the right dosage as a medicine, it does not harm even diabetic patients. Researched by western scientists:
HEART DISEASES: Make a paste of honey and cinnamon powder, put it on toast instead of jelly and jam and eat it regularly for breakfast. It reduces the cholesterol and could potentially save one from heart attack. Also, even if you have already had an attack studies show you could be kept miles away from the next attack. Regular use of cinnamon honey strengthens the heart beat. In America and Canada, various nursing homes have treated patients successfully and have found that as one ages the arteries and veins lose their flexibility and get clogged; honey and cinnamon revitalize the arteries and the veins.
ARTHRITIS: Arthritis patients can benefit by taking one cup of hot water with two tablespoons of honey and one small teaspoon of cinnamon powder. When taken daily even chronic arthritis can be cured. In a recent research conducted at the Copenhagen University, it was found that when the doctors treated their patients with a mixture of one tablespoon Honey and half teaspoon Cinnamon powder before breakfast, they found that within a week (out of the 200 people so treated) practically 73 patients were totally relieved of pain -- and within a month, most all the patients who could not walk or move around because of arthritis now started walking without pain.
BLADDER INFECTIONS: Take two tablespoons of cinnamon powder and one teaspoon of honey in a glass of lukewarm water and drink it. It destroys the germs in the bladder....who knew?
CHOLESTEROL: Two tablespoons of honey and three teaspoons of Cinnamon Powder mixed in 16 ounces of tea water given to a cholesterol patient was found to reduce the level of cholesterol in the blood by 10 percent within two hours. As mentioned for arthritic patients, when taken three times a day, any chronic cholesterol-could be cured. According to information received in the said Journal, pure honey taken with food daily relieves complaints of cholesterol.
COLDS: Those suffering from common or severe colds should take one tablespoon lukewarm honey with 1/4 spoon cinnamon powder daily for three days. This process will cure most chronic cough, cold, and, clear the sinuses, and it's delicious too!
UPSET STOMACH: Honey taken with cinnamon powder cures stomach ache and also is said to clear stomach ulcers from its root.
GAS: According to the studies done in India and Japan, it is revealed that when Honey is taken with cinnamon powder the stomach is relieved of gas.
IMMUNE SYSTEM: Daily use of honey and cinnamon powder strengthens the immune system and protects the body from bacterial and viral attacks. Scientists have found that honey has various vitamins and iron in large amounts. Constant use of Honey strengthens the white blood corpuscles (where DNA is contained) to fight bacterial and viral diseases.
INDIGESTION: Cinnamon powder sprinkled on two tablespoons of honey taken before food is eaten relieves acidity and digests the heaviest of meals
INFLUENZA: A scientist in Spain has proved that honey contains a natural 'Ingredient' which kills the influenza germs and saves the patient from flu.
LONGEVITY: Tea made with honey and cinnamon powder, when taken regularly, arrests the ravages of old age. Use four teaspoons of honey, one teaspoon of cinnamon powder, and three cups of boiling water to make a tea. Drink 1/4 cup, three to four times a day. It keeps the skin fresh and soft and arrests old age. Life spans increase and even a 100 year old will start performing the chores of a 20-year-old.
RASPY OR SORE THROAT: When throat has a tickle or is raspy, take one tablespoon of honey and sip until gone. Repeat every three hours until throat is without symptoms.
PIMPLES: Three tablespoons of honey and one teaspoon of cinnamon powder paste. Apply this paste on the pimples before sleeping and wash it off the next morning with warm water. When done daily for two weeks, it removes all pimples from the root.
SKIN INFECTIONS:Applying honey and cinnamon powder in equal parts on the affected parts cures eczema, ringworm and all types of skin Infections.
WEIGHT LOSS:Daily in the morning one half hour before breakfast and on an empty stomach, and at night before sleeping, drink honey and cinnamon powder boiled in one cup of water. When taken regularly, it reduces the weight of even the most obese person. Also, drinking this mixture regularly does not allow the fat to accumulate in the body even though the person may eat a high calorie diet.
CANCER: Recent research in Japan and Australia has revealed that advanced cancer of the stomach and bones have been cured successfully. Patients suffering from these kinds of cancer should daily take one tablespoon of honey with one teaspoon of cinnamon powder three times a day for one month.
FATIGUE: Recent studies have shown that the sugar content of honey is more helpful rather than being detrimental to the strength of the body. Senior citizens who take honey and cinnamon powder in equal parts are more alert and flexible. Dr. Milton, who has done research, says that a half tablespoon of honey taken in a glass of water and sprinkled with cinnamon powder, even when the vitality of the body starts to decrease, when taken daily after brushing and in the afternoon at about 3:00 P.M., the vitality of the body increases within a week.
BAD BREATH: People of South America, gargle with one teaspoon of honey and cinnamon powder mixed in hot water first thing in the morning so their breath stays fresh throughout the day.
HEARING LOSS: Daily morning and night honey and cinnamon powder, taken in equal parts restores hearing.
0 Comments
Around the house
9/24/2018
0 Comments
1)Toothpaste: Buff a CD/DVD
Apply toothpaste to a cotton ball and wipe the disc. Wash with water afterwards and you’ve got a brand new disc!
2) Cornstarch: Untangle Knots
Sprinkling cornstarch into tough knots, such as shoe laces helps loosen them.
3) Walnut: Buff Dings out of Wood Furniture
Get rid of unsightly scratches and dings on wood furniture by rubbing a walnut on the areas. The blemishes will vanish quickly and your furniture and pocket book will be saved.
4) Club Soda: Make Your Breads Fluffier
When baking, where recipes call for water, add club soda instead to make pancakes, waffles and any other breads fluffier.
5) Salt: Keep Windows Frost Free
Pour a cup of salt into a liter of water. Sponge the liquid onto the inside of window to prevent frost from forming during the winter months.
6) Rubbing Alcohol: Remove Permanent Marker
Dab the surface that has the permanent marker on it with a cloth or cotton ball covered in rubbing alcohol to make it disappear quickly.
7) Chap stick: Stops Bleeding When Nicked Shaving
Cut yourself shaving? Just swipe some chap stick over the cut to stop that constant bleeding. No more tissue squares!
8)Apple Juice: Removes Dandruff
Don’t ask how it works, but it does! Instead of buying a special shampoo, just wash your hair in apple juice to rid your scalp of pesky dandruff.
9) Aspirin: Get Rid of Armpit Stains on T-Shirts
Grind up an aspirin tablet or two, then make a paste out of it using water, lemon or vinegar. Spread the paste on the stained area and let sit for an hour before washing.
10) Olive Oil: Make Pets’ Coat Shinier
Add a bit of olive oil to your pet’s food to give them a healthier, shinier coat of fur.
11) Newspapers: Clean Windows and Mirrors
Instead of using a spray and a streaky cloth, use only newspaper to clean off your mirrors and windows for a streak-free finish.
12) Baking Soda: Remove Bugs from Windshield
Mix baking soda with warm water to make a paste. Spread the paste over your windshield for fifteen minutes. Then wipe or spray off with a hose.
13) Bleach: Extend Life of Flowers in Vase
Add a few drops of bleach to vase water to prevent the build-up of the slime caused by bacteria. It works just like chlorine in a swimming pool.
14) Kitchen Dish Soap: Flea-Killing Dog Shampoo
Kitchen dish soap (not dish detergent) can double as dog shampoo for its flea killing abilities.
15) Coke: Remove Blood Stains from Clothing
Soak the stain in coke until the stain is dissolved, then wash the clothing as usual. Wash before the coke dries, though.
16) Honey: Remove Blemish Overnight
Have a blemish you need to get rid of by tomorrow? Put a dab of honey on the blemish and cover it up (it’s best to use a Band-Aid) and the honey’s natural antibacterial properties will clean out the bacteria by the morning.
17) Wax Paper: Clean Can Opener Gears
Run a few small strips of wax paper through the can opener to clean out of the bits and pieces that have built up in the gears throughout the year. The wax will also rub off on the gears to protect for future use as well.
18) WD-40: Remove Crayons from Walls
Use the lubricant and a cloth to remove stubborn crayon marks from the walls just by spraying the wall and wiping with a cloth.
19) Chalk: Keep Ants and Slugs Out of the House
Ants and Slugs Won’t Touch Chalk. So, simply draw a line in front of your doorway where you are having problems with these pesky critters and they won’t cross it, meaning they won’t be able to get into your house.
20) Vinegar: Kills Weeds and Helps Flowers Grow
Vinegar is a magic wonder when it comes to gardening. It not only kills weeds but they help flowers grow as well. Douse vinegar all around your garden to prevent weeds from popping up and to help your flowers to grow healthy and strong.
21) Mayonnaise: Remove Bumper Sticker
Spread mayonnaise on the bumper sticker and let sit for at least thirty minutes. Then, rub the sticker off with a towel, leaving a clean bumper!
22) Tin Foil Ball: Replace Dryer Sheets Permanently
Instead of using a dryer sheet ball up one or a few sheets of tin foil and toss it in the dryer. It removes the static electricity from your clothes and one can last up to a year.
23) Banana Peel: Polish Leather Shoes
Use the inside of a banana peel to give shoes a professional and natural shine that will last for quite some time.
24) Mouthwash: Cure Athlete’s Foot
Pour mouthwash on cotton balls and then swab your feet. The alcohol will disinfect the bacteria completely if you continue this for a week or so.
25) Baking Soda: Clean BBQ Grill
Mix a cup of baking soda with half a cup water to make a paste. Dip your brush into the paste and scrub the grill. The caked on pieces and black residue will come off much quicker and using baking soda is much safer and cheaper than using cleaning chemicals.
26) Coffee Grounds: Fertilizer
Coffee is full of nutrients and vitamins that are very beneficial to soil. That’s why some people include it in compost piles. If you want to get the most out of your coffee, pour the grounds on areas where you want more grass or flowers.
27) Olive Oil: Shaving Cream
The smoothness of the oil can replace the need for shaving cream, and it also provides great moisture.
28) Dryer Sheets: Gets Rid of Static Electricity
Use dryer sheets to remove static electricity from things such as clothing, TV screens or your own hair. Tame fly away strands by running a dryer sheet over them.
29) Freezer: Freeze Candles to Make Them Last Longer
Put candles in the freezer for at least 2 hours before using. Once you burn them, the wax will melt at a much slower pace, making them last much longer!
30) Two glasses of water: Cure Headache
Water is the cure to most common headaches. To make the headache go away quickly, drink two cups of water very quickly.
31) Lemons: Deodorize Garbage Disposal
Toss whole slices of lemon into the garbage disposal then run it. The acidity of the lemon will rid your sink of all odors and leave a fresh scent that usually lasts for a few months.
32) Alka Seltzer: Remove Burnt-On Grease and Food Stains
When letting your pots and pans soak, throw in one or two Alka Seltzer tablets and the caked on residue from cooking will come off easily when you scrub/wash.
33) Apple Cider Vinegar: Relieve Diarrhea
Mix two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar into eight ounces of water to soothe your stomach. The taste may not be the greatest, but the antibacterial properties of the vinegar will end the unpleasantness of the bowel problems.
34) Toothpaste: Remove Scratches from Glass
Apply toothpaste to scratch, then rub with a cloth until the scratch is gone. Make sure the glass is clean beforehand.
35) Cheerios: Relieve Pain from Poison Ivy, Chickenpox and Sunburns
Pound one to four cups of Cheerios into a powder and add to your bath to soothe your skin while you soak. You may not feel relief while in the tub, but you will soon after.
36) Buttons: Sort Earrings
Organize your earrings and prevent them from becoming entangled by using spare buttons as holders for each pair.
37) Corn Oil: Prevent Hairballs for Pets
Add a few drops of corn oil to your pets’ food to prevent hairballs from forming. The thick oil helps the fur pass through the animal’s system much quicker and easily.
38) Whipped Cream: Remove Gum from Hair
There are many remedies for removing gum from hair, but this is a lesser known one. Give it a try rather than peanut butter the next time you’re in need.
39) Coke: Remove Oil Stains from the Driveway
Oil stains are very difficult to remove pavement, but one method guaranteed to work is Coke. The highly acidic drink will eat away at the oil until clean.
40) Brown Sugar: Facial Scrub
A scrub is good to do about once a month to remove dead skin and bacteria built up in pores and remove excess oil from the skin. Brown sugar does just as well as expensive products and will definitely result in a clearer and smoother complexion.
41) Dryer Sheet: Lint Brush
You already know that dryer sheets remove lint in the dryer. Well, it can do the same thing out of the dryer, too. When you’re in a fix, use a dryer sheet. It works just as well as a lint brush, and if you like the scent, it’s an added bonus.
42) Newspaper: Deodorize food containers and Food Drawers in the Refrigerator
For that stinky Tupperware or smelly refrigerator drawer that is too much to deal with, toss in a sheet of newspaper overnight before you deal with it. The paper will absorb the smell greatly reducing it or eliminating it completely.
43) Olive Oil: Un-stick a Zipper
The oil will help the zipper slide more easily, fixing the problem!
44) Salt: Cool Something Quickly
You know that feeling when you’re having a BBQ and someone asks for a drink and you realize that no one has put them in the cooler? There’s nothing worse than a warm drink on a hot day. Chill a drink quickly, by adding salt and water to your ice. The drinks will be cold in a matter of minutes; saving your party and making you look smart all at once.
45) Scotch Tape: Prevent Wall from Chipping When Nailing
The wall can leave unsightly chips when hammering in a nail. Prevent this by simply placing a piece of scotch tape over the area you’re going to nail. The wall will be held tighter, preventing chips from occurring.
46) Alka Seltzer: Soothe Insect Bites
Dissolve two tablets into a glass of water. Then use a cloth or cotton ball to apply it to the affected area. The red will go down and most importantly, the itchiness will vanish usually in fifteen minutes.
47) Lemon: Whitens Whites
Add about half a cup of lemon juice to your load of whites to makes them extra white. You can use lemon juice with bleach or detergent, so don’t worry about mixing chemicals with the acidic lemon.
48) Banana Peel: Whiten Teeth
This may sound a little odd, but rub the inside of a banana peel on your teeth twice a day for two weeks and you will receive the same effect from a teeth-whitening kit. Plus, you’ll save yourself money and the hassle of using chemicals.
49) Hair Dryer: Free Photos Stuck on Pages
If you have a photo stuck on a page that you can’t get free, try using a blow dryer on the back of the page. It will loosen the photo from the page and the adhesive holding it there.
50) Banana Peel: Heal Most Skin Problems
Bananas are the magical fruit, because they heal many common problems on the skin. By rubbing the peel on your skin, you can heal bruises and cuts and eliminate rashes, itching and warts. Basically if you have a common skin problem, it can be cured by this fruit.
0 Comments
WD-40
9/24/2018
0 Comments
In 1953, a fledgling company called Rocket Chemical Company and its staff of three set out to create a line of rust-prevention solvents and degreasers for use in the aerospace industry, in a small lab in San Diego, California.
It took them 40 attempts to get the water displacing formula worked out. But they must have been really good, because the original secret formula for WD-40®—which stands for Water Displacement perfected on the 40th try—is still in use today.
Convair, an aerospace contractor, first usedWD-40 to protect the outer skin of the Atlas Missile from rust and corrosion. The product actually worked so well that several employees snuck some WD-40 cans out of the plant to use at home.
A few years following WD-40's first industrial use, Rocket Chemical Company founder Norm Larsen experimented with putting WD-40into aerosol cans, reasoning that consumers might find a use for the product at home as some of the employees had. The product made its first appearance on store shelves in San Diego in 1958.
In 1960 the company nearly doubled in size, growing to seven people, who sold an average of 45 cases per day from the trunk of their cars to hardware and sporting goods stores in the San Diego area.
In 1961 the first full truckload order for WD-40 was filled when employees came in on a Saturday to produce additional concentrate to meet the disaster needs of the victims of Hurricane Carla along the U.S. Gulf coast. WD-40 was used to recondition flood and rain damaged vehicles and equipment.
In 1969 the company was renamed after its only product,
WD-40 Company, Inc.
In 1973, WD-40 Company, Inc., went public and was listed Over-The-Counter. The stock price increased by 61% on the first day of listing.
Since that time, WD-40 has grown by leaps and bounds, and is now virtually a household name, used in numerous consumer and industrial markets such as automotive, manufacturing, sporting goods, aviation, hardware and home improvement, construction, and farming.
In 1993, WD-40 was found to be in 4 out of 5 American households (it seems everyone has a can or two) and was used by 81 percent of professionals at work. Sales had grown to more than one million cans each week.
In 2003, the new WD-40 Big Blast can was introduced, featuring a wide-area spray nozzle that delivers WD-40 quickly and efficiently over large areas.
In 2005, as a commitment to offering consumers the easiest, most convenient way to get the job done, WD-40 Company introduced the WD-40 Smart Straw®, which features a permanently attached straw. The Smart Straw can solved the number one complaint about WD-40 products losing the little red straw.
In 2006, WD-40 Company introduced the WD-40 No-Mess Pen® to provide millions of WD-40 users a portable, precision-application delivery system of the famous multi-purpose problem solver. TheWD-40 Fan Club also reached an astonishing 100,000 members & a tribute to WD-40’s fanatical fan base around the globe.
In 2008, WD-40 Company listened to its consumers and converted its most popular-size WD-40 cans to WD-40 Smart Straw® cans. The official list of 2000+ Uses for WD-40 also grew for the first time, thanks to the help of WD-40 Fan Club members.
In 2009, WD-40 Company introduced WD-40 Trigger Pro® – a non-aerosol product with the same WD-40 formula – to better meet the needs of its industrial consumers.
In 2011, WD-40 Company introduced WD-40® Specialist® – a new line of best-in-class specialty products under the WD-40 brand geared toward trade professionals.
WD-40 Uses:
1. Protects silver from tarnishing.
2. Removes road tar and grime from cars.
3. Cleans and lubricates guitar strings.
4. Gives floor that 'just-waxed' sheen without making them slippery.
5. Keeps the flies off of Cows, Horses, and other Farm Critters, as well. (Ya gotta love this one!!!)
6. Restores and cleans chalkboards.
7. Removes lipstick stains.
8. Loosens stubborn zippers.
9. Untangles jewelry chains.
10. Removes stains from stainless steel sinks.
11. Removes dirt and grime from the barbecue grill.
12. Keeps ceramic / terracotta garden pots from oxidizing.
13. Removes tomato stains from clothing.
14. Keeps glass shower doors free of water spots.
15. Camouflages scratches in ceramic and marble floors.
16. Keeps scissors working smoothly.
17. Lubricates noisy door hinges on both home and vehicles doors.
18. It removes that nasty tar and scuff marks from the kitchen flooring.
It doesn't seem to harm the finish and you won't have to scrub nearly as hard to get them off.
Just remember to open some windows if you have a lot of marks.
19. Remove those nasty Bug guts that will eat away the finish on your car if not removed quickly!
20. Gives a children's playground gym slide a shine for a super fast slide.
21. Lubricates gearshift and mower deck lever for ease of handling on riding mowers...
22. Rids kids rocking chair and swings of squeaky noises.
23. Lubricates tracks in sticking home windows and makes them easier to open.
24. Spraying an umbrella stem makes it easier to open and close.
25. Restores and cleans padded leather dashboards in vehicles, as well as vinyl bumpers.
26. Restores and cleans roof racks on vehicles.
27. Lubricates and stops squeaks in electric fans.
28. Lubricates wheel sprockets on tricycles, wagons, and bicycles for easy handling.
29. Lubricates fan belts on washers and dryers and keeps them running smoothly.
30. Keeps rust from forming on saws and saw blades, and other tools.
31. Removes grease splatters from stove-tops.
32. Keeps bathroom mirror from fogging.
33. Lubricates prosthetic limbs.
34. Keeps pigeons off the balcony (they hate the smell).
35. Removes all traces of duct tape.
36. Folks even spray it on their arms, hands, and knees to relieve arthritis pain.
37. Florida's favorite use is: 'cleans and removes love bugs from grills and bumpers.'
38. The favorite use in the state of New York, it protects the Statue of Liberty from the elements.
39. WD-40 attracts fish. Spray a little on live bait or lures and you will be catching the big one in no time. Also, it's a lot cheaper than the chemical attractants that are made for just that purpose.
Keep in mind though, using some chemical laced baits or lures for fishing are not allowed in some states.
40. Use it for fire ant bites. It takes the sting away immediately and stops the itch.
41. It is great for removing crayon from walls. Spray it on the marks and wipe with a clean rag.
42. Also, if you've discovered that your teenage daughter has washed and dried a tube of lipstick with a load of laundry, saturate the lipstick spots with WD-40 and rewash. Presto! The lipstick is gone!
43. If you spray it inside a wet distributor cap, it will displace the moisture, allowing the engine to start.
And for the rest of the 2000+ uses ... visit HERE
Information here was taken from the WD-40 website ...
as well as from around the web ...
and from personal experience and uses.
0 Comments
Baking Soda ...
9/24/2018
0 Comments
1. Facial scrub. Make a paste of 3 parts baking soda to 1 part water. Rub on skin in a circular motion. Rinse clean.
2. Freshen your mouth. Put one teaspoon of baking soda in a half glass of water then swish, spit and rinse.
3. Treat insect bites. Make a paste out of baking soda and water and apply to affected area.
4. Clean brushes and combs. Remove oil build-up and hair products by soaking combs and brushes in a small basin of warm water with 1 teaspoon of baking soda in it. Rinse and allow to dry.
5. Soothe your feet. Dissolve 3 tablespoons of baking soda in a warm bath. Let feet soak and gently scrub.
6. Clean the microwave. Apply baking soda to a clean, damp sponge and scrub out the microwave. Rinse well with water.
7. Clean the oven. Sprinkle baking soda on the bottom of the oven. Spray baking soda with water and let sit overnight. In the morning, scrub and wipe away residue.
8. Hand wash dishes, pots and pans. Add 2 heaping tablespoons of baking soda (in addition to your regular detergent) to the dish water to help cut grease and remove foods left on dishes.
9. Clean sponges. Soak smelly sponges in 4 tablespoons of baking soda dissolved in 1 quart of warm water.
10. Polish Silverware. Make a baking soda paste with 3 parts baking soda and 1 part water. Rub onto silverware with a clean cloth or sponge and rinse thoroughly.
11. Clean floors. Add 1/2 cup baking soda to a bucket of warm water. Mop floor and rinse clean.
12. Clean furniture. Apply baking soda to a damp sponge and rub lightly. Wipe off with a clean, dry cloth.
13. Remove oil and gas stains. Sprinkle baking soda on stain and scrub with a wet brush.
14. Boost liquid laundry detergent. Add a 1/2 cup of baking soda to laundry to help clothes get cleaner, fresher and brighter.
15. Clean shower curtains. Sprinkle baking soda directly on a damp sponge. Scrub the shower curtain and rinse clean.
16. Clean cloth diapers. Dissolve 1/2 cup of baking soda in 2 quarts of water and soak diapers thoroughly.
17. Clean batteries. Baking soda can neutralize battery acid corrosion on cars, mowers, etc. because it is a mild alkali. To clean, disconnect the battery terminals. Make a paste of 3 parts baking soda to 1 part water and apply with a damp cloth and scrub corrosion from the battery terminal.
18. Freshen your fridge. Place an opened box of baking soda in your refrigerator to neutralize odors.
19. Deodorize trash cans. Sprinkle baking soda in the bottom of your trash can to help cut smells and odors.
20. Extinguish fires. For small cooking fires, turn off the gas or electricity if possible. Stand back and throw handfuls of baking soda at the base of the flame to help put out the fire.
21. Fruit and veggie scrub. Sprinkle a little baking soda on a damp sponge, rub on fruit/veggies and rinse.
22. Remove marks from walls. Create a paste with 3 parts baking soda to 1 part water and use to scrub walls and remove crayon and other marks.
23. Remove grunge from grills. Sprinkle baking soda on your grill and scrub with a brush. Wipe clean with a damp rag.
24. Septic care. Regular use of baking soda in your drains can keep your septic system flowing freely. One cup of baking soda per week will maintain a good pH balance in your septic tank.
25. Clean baby toys. Mix 4 tablespoons of baking soda with 1 quart of warm water. Soak toys and rinse well.
26. Clean counters. Sprinkle baking soda on your counter and scrub with a damp sponge. Wipe clean with a damp rag.
27. Deodorize and clean dishwashers. Sprinkle baking soda in the bottom of your dishwasher and run as usual.
28. Freshen rugs. Sprinkle baking soda on rugs and let sit for at least 15 minutes. Shake rugs clean or vacuum off.
29. Brighten dull floors. Dissolve 1/2 cup baking soda in a bucket of hot water. Mop and rinse for shiny floors.
30. DIY bathroom scrub. Mix 1/4 cup baking soda with 1 tablespoon liquid detergent. Add a little vinegar to give it a creamy texture and use to clean your tubs and sinks.
31. Brush pet teeth. Sprinkle baking soda on a toothbrush and use to safely brush your pet's teeth.
32. Sunburn relief. Mix baking soda with a little water and apply to sore areas to soothe pain.
33. Fight dandruff. Massage scalp with a handful of baking soda to slough off dry skin.
34. Deodorize garbage disposals. Pour baking soda down the drain while running warm tap water.
35. Freshen breath. Mix a little baking soda in a small cup of water and gargle to freshen breath.
36. Clean toothbrushes. Soak bristle end of toothbrushes in a mixture of 1/4 cup water and 1/4 cup baking soda. Let sit overnight and rinse.
37. Make fluffier omelets. Add 1/2 teaspoon baking soda for every 3 eggs.
38. Deodorize lunch boxes. Between uses, place a spill-proof box of baking soda in lunch boxes to absorb odors.
39. Repel rain. Sprinkle baking soda on your windshield and wipe away to help repel rain.
40. Remove insecticides. Fill your sink with water and mix in 1/4 cup of baking soda. Wash fruits and vegetables in the water to safely remove insecticides.
41. Fresh smelling drawers. Pour some baking soda into a sock and tie the top in a knot. Keep the filled sock in your drawer to help keep it fresh smelling.
42. Check soil acidity. Soil needs to be acidic for plants and vegetation to grow properly. To check if your soil is acidic enough, mix 1/4 cup of baking soda with 2 cups of water then stir in 1 cup of soil. If the mixture bubbles, then your soil is acidic enough.
43. Relieve itchy skin. Sprinkle baking soda in a bath tub filled with warm water and add 1/4 cup of baby oil to help soften and relieve itchy skin.
44. Deodorize drains. To deodorize sink and tub drains, pour 1/2 cup of baking soda down the drain while running warm tap water.
45. Freshen patio furniture. Sprinkle patio furniture and cushions with baking soda before storing them for the winter to help them stay fresh smelling until summer.
46. Resist split ends. Add a little baking soda to your conditioner and lather in your hair to clean and help prevent split ends.
47. Poison ivy relief. Mix baking soda with a little water and apply to affected area to soothe skin.
48. Unclog drains. Pour one cup of baking soda followed by one cup of hot vinegar to unclog a drain.
49. Keep away weeds. Sprinkle baking soda on cracks in your driveway and sidewalk to help prevent weed growth.
50. Deodorize the cutting boards. Sprinkle cutting boards with baking soda, scrub and rinse.
51. Razor burn relief. Rub a paste of baking soda and water on irritated area.
52. Clean finger and toe nails. Dip a nail brush in baking soda and scrub to clean nails and soften cuticles.
53. Make bubbling bath salts. Mix 2 1/2 cups baking soda, 2 cups cream of tartar and 1/2 cup cornstarch. Mix together and store in a container. Use 1/4 cup in each bath.
54. Remove calluses. Massage a paste of 3 parts baking soda to 1 part water on heels/feet to smooth rough calluses or heels.
55. Deodorize recyclables. Sprinkle baking soda on top as you add to the container. You can also sprinkle baking soda on a damp sponge, wipe clean and rinse.
56. Remove odor from hands. Remove the smell of fish, onion or garlic with a solution of 3 parts baking soda to 1 part water or liquid soap. Rinse off and dry.
57. Exfoliate elbows and knees. Make a paste with baking soda and water and rub on elbows and knees to remove dry skin.
58. Revitalize your feet. Soak tired feet in a basin fill with warm water and 3 tablespoons of baking soda.
59. Chlorine remover. Rinse hair with 1/2 teaspoon of baking soda in 1 pint of water to remove dullness or discoloration in hair caused by chlorine.
60. Remove odor from carpets. Sprinkle baking soda on the carpet. Let sit overnight and vacuum up in the morning.
61. Relieve body odor. Mix a cup of baking soda in a bathtub filled with cool water will help cause body odor causing bacteria. Bathe as usual.
62. Fill holes in the wall. Mix white toothpaste and baking soda together. Fill in the holes and allow to dry.
63. Freshen the smell of your car. Fill your ashtray with baking soda to neutralize and freshen the air in your vehicle.
64. Polish chrome. Make a paste of baking soda and water, dip a rag in it, rub it on chrome and wipe off for a shiny polished look.
65. Deodorize your wash. Smelly clothes can be neutralized with 1/2 cup of baking soda in the rinse cycle of your wash.
66. Remove water rings and spots. Make a paste with baking soda and water and combine with a little toothpaste. Dip a soft cloth in the paste and rub away rings and spots from wood.
67. Freshen up fireplaces. Clean all ashes out of your fireplace and place a bowl filled with baking soda inside of it to remove unwanted odors.
68. Remove bean bloat. Sprinkle a teaspoon of baking soda in your water when soaking beans to remove what causes gas and bloat when eating them.
69. Remove hair buildup. Mix a teaspoon of baking soda in with your shampoo and wash as usual to remove unwanted buildup.
70. Whiten teeth. Dip your toothbrush in baking soda before every brushing and brush teeth as usual to white teeth naturally.
71. Freshen closets. Place an open box of baking soda on a shelf to keep the closet smelling fresh.
72. Remove sauce stains. Make a paste of baking soda and water and scrub on plastic containers stained with red sauces to remove stains.
73. Melt the ice. Sprinkle baking soda on icy steps and sidewalk to help melt ice and provide traction.
74. Remove sweat stains. Make a paste of baking soda and water, spread on stain, let sit for an hour and wash as usual.
75. Acne clearing mask. Make a paste of baking soda and water, spread on face, let sit for 5-7 minutes and rinse off with warm water.
76. Clean retainers or dentures. Sprinkle baking soda on a toothbrush and brush retainers or dentures then rinse under water.
77. Clean burned on food off pots and pans. Fill pots and pans with hot water, sprinkle in a few teaspoons of baking soda, and let sit for 10 minutes before washing.
78. Remove odors from vacuum cleaners. Sprinkle baking soda on the carpet and vacuum up to remove odors inside your vacuum.
79. Remove grease stains from garage floors. Sprinkle baking soda on the grease to absorb the oils, scrub and rinse.
80. Clean marble. Add 3 teaspoons of baking soda to a quart of warm water. Dip a clean cloth in the water and wipe down marble.
81. Clean shoes. Make a paste of baking soda and water, apply to shoes, scrub with a sponge or rag and wipe off.
82. Freshen stuffed animals. Sprinkle baking soda on toys and let sit for at least 15 minutes before brushing or vacuuming off.
83. Deodorize cars. Eliminate odors settled into car upholstery and carpet by sprinkling baking soda onto fabric seats and carpets. Wait at least 15 minutes, and vacuum up.
84. Clean and deodorize toilets. Add a cup of baking soda to a toilet, let sit for and hour and flush to clean and freshen.
85. Clean stinky pets. Sprinkle baking soda on your pets fur and brush through to help deodorize fur and hair.
86. Sweeten tomatoes. Sprinkle baking soda in the soil surrounding your tomato plants to give them a sweeter flavor.
87. Repel bugs. Sprinkle baking soda along basement windows and under sinks to repel cockroaches and ants.
88. Deodorize kitty litter. Cover the bottom of the kitty litter pan with baking soda and fill as usual. You can also sprinkle baking soda on top of litter.
89. Protect your garden. Sprinkle baking soda around your garden and vegetables to keep rabbits and other animals from eating them.
90. Fix stiff brushes. Boil brushes in 1/2 gallon of water, 1/4 cup vinegar and 1 cup of baking soda.
91. Deodorize smelly dish rags. Soak dish rags in a warm container of water and baking soda.
92. Make modeling clay. Mix baking soda with 1/4 cup of water and 1 cup of cornstarch until it reaches a clay like consistency.
93. Deodorize pet bedding. Sprinkle bedding liberally with baking soda, wait at least 15 minutes then vacuum up.
94. Freshen the air. Mix baking soda with your favorite perfumed bath salts, place in small breathable fabric bags and place around your house.
95. Relieve jelly fish stings. Apply paste of baking soda and water to a jelly fish sting to draw out the venom.
96. Relieve diaper rash. Add 2 teaspoons of baking soda to baby's bath water to help relieve diaper rash.
97. Freshen up stinky shoes. Sprinkle baking soda into shoes when not in use. Shake out before wearing.
98. Longer lasting flowers. Add a teaspoon of baking soda to the water in your vase with fresh cut flowers to help them live longer.
99. Unclog stuffy noses. Add 1 teaspoon of baking soda to the water in your vaporizer to help clear stuffy sinuses.
100. Freshen linens. Add 1/2 cup of baking soda to the rinse cycle in your washing machine for fresher sheets and towels.
101. Relieve heartburn. Add 1 teaspoon of baking soda to 1/2 cup of water and drink to neutralize stomach acids.
0 Comments
Archives
September 2018
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
July 2013
October 2012
September 2012
Categories
All
Apple Cider
Around The House
Baking
Baking Soda
Burns
Candles
Cinnamon
Cleaning
Coffee Filters
Cooking
Crafts
Critters
Cucumbers
Diet
Garage
Hair
Headaches
Health
Holidays
Honey
Hydrogen Peroxide
Kitchen
Olive Oil
Organization
Outside
Pets
Stains
Storage
Sunburn
Travel
Vinegar
WD-40
RSS Feed
Website designed & developed by Margaret McCoy
​
Learning to laugh, to love, to live ... again ... alone
Life goes on ... even when we don't want it to.
Great grief is indicative of a great Love.
Rick, my Sweetheart.
Margaret, his Beloved.
Always & Forever.
​