WiFi in Schools Australia: Precautionary Approach
Home
Precautionary Approach
Scientific Evidence
Safety Standards
Contact
Media - Australia
Videos
WiFi
EMR
Health Effects
Reducing EMR
Debate
Australia
Worldwide
ARPANSA
Take Action
Precautionary Approach
What is a precautionary approach?
When an action or policy carries the risk of harm to human health, even if there is some scientific uncertainty about the cause and effect, precautionary measures should be taken.
We need to take responsible measures to reduce exposure to EMR until research demonstrates conclusive results.
Although there is a growing body of evidence that shows biological effects at levels well below the current limits, there has been an ongoing debate and disagreement among scientists about when the evidence is sufficient to take action. Experts all agree that there needs to be more research to establish conclusive proof. This could take decades by which time the damage may be extensive and irreversible to children.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) publication, “The precautionary principle: protecting public health, the environment and the future of our children”cautions on the grave consequences of failing to act in a timely manner as was the case with asbestos and tobacco. In an effort to protect children and future generations this WHO document outlines a scientific, ethical and public health approach to applying the precautionary principle. Included in the report are scientific tools for identifying uncertain and complex risks, linking these with tools for cleaner production and innovation in safer technologies and activities.
Based on studies on related wireless technologies, a precautionary approach has been advised by a number of governments, authorities and medical associations overseas. Some authorities have banned or restricted the use of WiFi in schools as a precautionary measure.
In the absences of scientific studies on the long-term health impact of WiFi on children, this is a responsible approach. As parents concerned about our children’s health we want to see consistent evidence of no harm from the long-term use of WiFi and laptops enabled with 3G connectivity. However, at present there are no long-term studies related to WiFi and children. There is growing scientific evidence showing biological effects from related wireless technologies and short-term studies which warrants taking a precautionary approach to WiFi enabled devices.
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Resource Downloads
Recent News
Letters of support from Scientists & Medical Experts
Sign This Avaaz Petition
Australian Schools: Stop Exposing Children to Radiation from WiFi and 3G until long-term exposure is proven harmless
Links
Safe Schools IT Alliance - SSITA
WiFi in Schools.org.uk
WiredChild
WiFi in Schools
Parents Against WiFi in School
Magda Havas
EMFacts Consultancy (Australia)
Powerwatch
Electromagnetic Health.org
Safe in School
Safe School Committee
Center for Safer Wireless
Citizens for Safe Technology
Electrosensitivity UK
Microwave News
Stop Smart Meters Australia
No Towers Near Schools (Australia)
Robin Des Toits
International Electro-Magnetic Fields Alliance
c4st
MobileWise
Environmental Health Trust
EM-Radiation Research Trust
Mullum Wi-Fi (Australia)
Escuela Sin Wifi
No Tower (Australia)
About WiFi in Schools Australia | Ethical Policy | Disclaimer of Liability | Privacy Policy | Content License
Please get informed. Pass on this knowledge to family, friends, politicians and decision-makers.
Let's protect children from wireless radiation until long-term exposure is proven harmless.
Powered by Blogger.