Evolocumab Does Not Affect Cognition When Combined With Statin Therapy - Neurology Advisor
Skip to navigation Skip to main content
Menu
Close
Search...
Submit
Epilepsy
Stroke
Neurodegenerative
Multiple Sclerosis
Movement Disorders
Pain
Open Submenu
Pain
Back
Migraine and Headache
Neuropathic Pain
Migraine and Headache
More
Open Submenu
More
Back
Alzheimer’s Disease and Dementia
Autism Spectrum Disorder
Brain Tumors
General Neurology
Neurobehavioral Disorders
Neurocognitive Disorders
Neuromuscular Disorders
Pediatric Neurology
Practice Management
Sleep Disorders
The Handoff
Traumatic Brain Injury
Vascular Neurology
Toggle Search Menu
News
CME
Drugs
Charts
Resources
Calculators
Multimedia
Jobs
Meetings
Login
Register
Topics » Neurocognitive Disorders
Publish Date March 22, 2017
Evolocumab Does Not Affect Cognition When Combined With Statin Therapy
Britt Gambino Digital Content Editor, The Cardiology Advisor
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Reddit
Print
Share by Email
No differences were seen in measures of executive function between the evolocumab and placebo groups.
WASHINGTON, DC — Adding evolocumab to statin therapy does not cause memory loss or other cognitive issues, according to the results of the EBBINGHAUS study presented at the 66th Annual Scientific Session & Expo of the American College of Cardiology (ACC).1
EBBINGHAUS (Evaluating PCSK9 Binding Antibody Influence on Cognitive Health in High Cardiovascular Risk Subjects; Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT02207634) was a substudy of the FOURIER clinical trial, also presented at ACC. Researchers enrolled 1974 patients from FOURIER to evaluate the relationship between a PCSK9 inhibitor (evolocumab) and changes in cognition. Patients were excluded if they had a diagnosis of dementia, cognitive impairment, or other significant mental or neurological disorder.
The question of neurocognitive function with statins first surfaced several years ago when some studies suggested a potential association between high doses of the agents and memory problems.2,3 The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) then added a safety alert label to statins4 in 2012, but 2 years later, a medical expert panel5 concluded the evidence was weak to nonexistent. The question was then raised again in 2015 when PCSK9 inhibitors were reported to cause potential cognitive side effects.6
Validated neurocognitive tests, including the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery, were conducted at baseline, after 24, 48, and 96 weeks; and at the conclusion of the study (median follow-up, 19 months). The primary end point was a measure of executive function known as the Spatial Working Memory Strategy Index. Questionnaires were also used to assess “everyday cognition” before, during, and at the end of the study.
In the group that received evolocumab, the change in executive function (by raw scores) was -0.29 compared with -0.21 in the placebo group (P noninferiority <.001). Furthermore, there were no statistically significant differences in cognitive test scores among different low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) values, even in patients who achieved levels <25 mg/dL.
One of the investigators, Robert P. Giugliano, MD, SM, associate professor at Harvard Medical School and staff physician at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, noted that FOURIER will have an open-label extension and the patients included in EBBINGHAUS will also roll over to that extension. The study may continue for several more years, possibly up to a decade. Dr Giugliano also addressed the issue of short follow-up by referencing neurocognitive experts he consulted who stated that 2 years is considered a lengthy period in the field.1
References
Giugliano RP; on behalf of the EBBINGHAUS Investigators. EBBINGHAUS: a cognitive study of patients enrolled in the FOURIER trial. Joint ACC/JAMA Late-Breaking Clinical Trials. Presented at: the 66th Annual Scientific Session & Expo of the American College of Cardiology. March 17-19, 2017; Washington, DC.
Rojas-Fernandez CH, Cameron JC. Is statin-associated cognitive impairment clinically relevant? A narrative review and clinical recommendations. Ann Pharmacother. 2012;46:549-557.
Padala KP, Padala PR, McNeilly DP, Geske JA, Sullivan DH, Potter JF. The effect of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors on cognition in patients with Alzheimer’s dementia: a prospective withdrawal and rechallenge pilot study. Am J Geriatr Pharmacother. 2012;10:296-302.
US Food and Drug Administration. FDA Drug Safety Communication: important label changes to cholesterol-lowering statin drugs. http://www.fda.gov/drugs/drugsafety/ucm293101.htm. Accessed March 19, 2017. Last updated January 19, 2016.
Rojas-Fernandez CH, Goldstein LB, Levey AI, Taylor BA, Bittner V, The National Lipid Association’s Safety Task Force. An assessment by the Statin Cognitive Safety Task Force: 2014 update. J Clin Lipidol. 2014;8(3 Suppl):S5-S16. doi:10.1016/j.jacl.2014.02.013
Lipinski MJ, Benedetto U, Escarcega RO, et al. The impact of proprotein convertase subtilisin-kexin type 9 serine protease inhibitors on lipid levels and outcomes in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia: a network meta-analysis. Eur Heart J. 2016;37(6):536-545. doi:10.1093/eurheartj/ehv563.
This article originally appeared on The Cardiology Advisor
Topics:
Cardiovascular Disease Cognition Cognitive Impairment Neurocognitive Disorders
Related Articles
Effect of Depression and Anxiety on Cognition in Parkinson’s Disease
Recommended For You
Popular
Emailed
Recent
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Want to read more?
Please login or register first to view this content.
Login
Register
Open
Next post in Neurocognitive Disorders
Close
Orthostatic Hypotension Linked to Dementia Risk Later in Life
Back to Top
Topics
Autism Spectrum Disorders
Epilepsy
General Neurology
Headache
Movement Disorders
Neurodegenerative Disorders
Pain
Pediatric Neurology
Sleep Disorders
Stroke
Features
News
Opinion
CME
Practice Management
Resources
Drug Database
Clinical Charts
Submissions
Medical Calculators
Meetings Calendar
Site Information
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Staff
Other Haymarket Medical Websites
Cancer Therapy Advisor
Clinical Advisor
Clinical Pain Advisor
Dermatology Advisor
Endocrinology Advisor
Hematology Advisor
Infectious Disease Advisor
McKnight's Senior Living
Medical Bag
MPR
myCME
Oncology Nurse Advisor
Psychiatry Advisor
Pulmonology Advisor
Renal and Urology News
Rheumatology Advisor
The Cardiology Advisor
Copyright © 2019 Haymarket Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorization.
Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of Haymarket Media’s Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
Close more info about Evolocumab Does Not Affect Cognition When Combined With Statin Therapy
Loading...
Close more info about Evolocumab Does Not Affect Cognition When Combined With Statin Therapy
Loading...