Can Masturbation Lead to UTI? Causes Of UTI In Men
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Additional menu
Make Life Natural
Home Remedies For Health & Beauty
Home Remedies
How To
Superfoods
Vitamins
Herbs
Fitness
Skin Care
Weight Loss
DIY
Can Masturbation Lead to UTI? Causes Of UTI In Men
Last updated: March 5, 2019 by Jacob Olesen
Among American men UTI is less common than it is among American women. Bacteria from the digestive tract coming in contact with the urethra, is one of the most common causes of UTI. Among men UTI risk is lower due the length of the urethra and distance from the anus. Among women, the shorter length of the urethra and proximity to the anus increases the risk of an infection. Some UTIs however are sexually transmitted and women are especially advised to use safe contraceptive methods to reduce the risk. Intercourse with a woman who is highly susceptible to UTI or is suffering from an infection at the moment increases the risk of UTI among men. Masturbation is more common among young and adult men than women. Masturbating at inappropriate places and unclean surroundings puts men at risk of UTIs. (Do note that masturbating with unclean hands or under unhygienic circumstances are not the only causes of UTI among men).
Causes of UTI among men
Although men are immune from intestinal bacteria playing villains in their urinary tract, there are other causes of UTI that put them at risk. A compromised immune system resulting from a previous acute illness makes men UTI susceptible.
Kidney stones and bladder stones are caused due to several reasons: biggest of them being consumption of excess alcohol. Stones in bladder and kidneys make men UTI susceptible in the long run.
Diabetes also compromises the immune system that in turn makes men UTI prone. It might also be the forerunner of recurrent UTI among men.
Inserting a foreign object like a catheter into the bladder through the penis makes men susceptible to UTI.
Among some men, an enlarged prostate is a genetic condition and once they attain a certain age, they invariably suffer from an enlarged prostate. It presses down on the urethra and the bladder causing among men UTI that recurs. Recurrent UTI eventually leads to bladder and kidney damage and the underlying condition must be corrected speedily. If you have knowledge of an enlarged prostate condition among men in your family, it is better to take measures to prevent the condition among the future generation of male children in the family.
How to avoid recurrent UTI in Men
If you are not circumcised, make sure you gently pull the foreskin and clean every time you masturbate, shower or have sex.
Drink enough water corresponding to your body weight. For every 20 kilograms of body weight, you should drink 1 liter of water. Even among men UTI causes more pain when you are dehydrated. If you are already suffering from UTI, it is all the more important to drink lot of water.
Try not to hold your urine. Pass urine every time you feel the urge. If you are already suffering from UTI, pass urine every single time you feel the urge even though it causes discomfort and maybe some burning.
Wear condoms during intercourse. Un-lubricated and spermicidal condoms increase the risk of UTI among women.
Limit the number of times you masturbate during a day and try to be more gentle in order to reduce the friction and hence irritation and susceptibility. Try also to not do it in unhygienic surroundings.
Symptoms of UTI among men
Urge to urinate more often than normal
Bloody urine or dark brick colored urine
Pain or burning or both during urination
Scant urination
Pain in the abdomen and lower back
Fever
Tenderness in the prostate area
Foul smelling urine
Remedies for men UTI
UTIs among women are treated with antibiotics and drinking plenty of fluids but in men, a more serious consideration is required
In men UTI transmitted sexually is treated as an STD rather than with standard antibiotics.
The possibility of a bladder infection and an infected kidney is considered and appropriate culture and tests are done to ascertain the amount of damage
Antibiotics are also prescribed once the extent of damage is ascertained and it is confirmed that the UTI is not sexually transmitted
A treatment of the prostate is also undertaken alongside to prevent recurrent UTI among men who are susceptible to prostate enlargement.
Among men UTI is not a common condition. Hence the knowledge of its diagnosis, treatment, and prevention is not as prevalent as with UTI among women. However, when men do contract UTI, the pain, irritation, suffering, and damage are substantial and hence being aware is important. Do not masturbate with filthy hands and in unhygienic surroundings. Be gentle and restrict the number of times you masturbate to avoid irritation and discomfort. If there is history of prostate enlargement in your family, ensure you follow hygienic practices in the household and drink plenty of water.
Related Posts
Best Remedies For UTI – 9 Best Natural Remedies To Cure UTI Fast
UTI is a common ailment in women and girls of all ages. Although UTI is…
UTI vs. Yeast Infections: Can UTI Cause A Yeast Infection?
Little List of UTI Tips For Women
Got a urinary tract infection? Here are 10 products that can help you treat it.
Primary Sidebar
Search this website
15 Natural Remedies For Amenorrhea (Irregular Periods)
5 Home Remedies To Increase Breast Size
15 Home Remedies for Acid Reflux
Hi, my name is Jacob Olesen and I have a passion for natural living. Join me in my quest for a healthier and happier life… Read more.
Enjoying my website? Let me know.
You can also send me a quick email.
See your doctor for medical advice.
Privacy Policy · Disclaimer · Copyright © 2019
We use cookies to improve your experience. Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy