How baking soda helps cancer patients | NaturalHealth365
Search for:
News
Food News
Walnuts may suppress breast cancer growth, new study reveals the right serving size
Vitamin C News
Vitamin E Alert: Researchers discover surprising reason why you may be deficient in this critical an…
Cancer News
Cancer survival NEWS: Breast cancer patients discover the true value of physical activity
EMF Updates
Parents demand removal of cell tower from elementary school after four students and three teachers d…
Videos
Podcasts
Shop
How baking soda helps cancer patients
by: Jonathan Landsman | January 13, 2014
(NaturalHealth365) Sodium bicarbonate, better known as baking soda, has been used for decades as a first line of defense against every kind of ‘acidic’ health problem – including cancer. Naturally, the question remains – is there any proof that baking soda is a defense against cancer or any other chronic dis-ease?
History has much to teach us about natural healthcare. In a booklet titled, Arm & Hammer Baking Soda Medical Uses – published in 1924, Dr. Volney S. Cheney explains his clinical successes in using sodium bicarbonate to treat both the common cold and flu. His comments are actually quite remarkable…
“In 1918 and 1919 while fighting the ‘flu’ with the U. S. Public Health Service it was brought to my attention that rarely anyone who had been thoroughly alkalinized with bicarbonate of soda contracted the disease, and those who did contract it, if alkalinized early, would invariably have mild attacks.”
Sodium bicarbonate has been and still is used to make the urine less acidic. This helps the kidneys get rid of uric acid and is used medically to prevent gout and kidney stones. Even athletes use sodium bicarbonate to improve endurance. In fact, cells that have enough bicarbonate consume more energy at rest – so they are better able to transport glucose and lactate.
Can baking soda help cancer patients heal naturally?
Dr. Mark Pagel, of the University of Arizona Cancer Center, is going to use a $2 million dollar grant from the National Institutes of Health to study the effectiveness of baking soda as a treatment for breast cancer.
This is a clinical trial on the use of oral baking soda for breast cancer. The grand was awarded because of the cancer research that Dr. Robert J. Gilles and colleagues have already successfully demonstrated with the pre-treatment of mice – using baking soda – to alkalize the area around cancer tumors.
Did you know? The liver is the most important detoxifying organ in the body. When the liver can’t effectively neutralize and dispose of toxins, they accumulate in the body. Two essential nutrients for healthy liver function are milk thistle and glutathione. These two ingredients - plus much more – are now available in an advanced liver support formula. Click here to learn more.
They have shown that sodium bicarbonate increases tumor pH, inhibits spontaneous metastases and reduces the rate of lymph node involvement in mice with breast cancer. And, the news gets even better…
Baking soda has been shown to suppress malignancies; treat the acid-alkaline axis by balancing the pH of cells and tissues and increases cell voltage.
By increasing oxygenation – baking soda prevents cells from turning cancerous and returns malignant cells to a healthy state. Sodium bicarbonate has been recommended for weak cancer patients. In a few days of treatment with sodium bicarbonate the cells in the muscles perform better.
How does baking soda prevent cellular damage?
The pH level of our internal fluids affects every cell in our body. Chronic over-acidity corrodes body tissue, and if left unchecked will interrupt all cellular activities and functions. In other words, over-acidity interferes with life itself. It is one of the root causes of cancer.
Every cell in the body requires oxygen to survive and maintain optimum health. The lower the ph – the less oxygen is available for the cells. This is shown when acid rain changes lakes; the fish suffocate because the lake binds up all the available oxygen.
The oxygen is there, but is no longer available and if you raise the lakes oxygen the lake will spring back to life.
How does ‘alkalinity’ help to prevent disease?
Keeping our pH within a healthy range also involves necessary lifestyle and dietary changes that will protect us over the long term. The use of sodium bicarbonate will give us a jump start toward increased alkalinity. In essence, sodium bicarbonate could be considered a ‘natural medicine’, and ought to be respected. Keep in mind, if our pH goes far above (or below) the ‘acceptable’ range – our risk for disease goes way up.
Drinking bicarbonate of soda dissolved in water has long been used to relieve the signs and symptoms of arthritis, indigestion, heartburn, and infection – among other maladies. Traditionally, sodium bicarbonate has been used as an antacid.
Did you know that we produce our own bicarbonate? Thanks to the work of our pancreas – bicarbonate neutralize acids coming from the stomach to make the environment right for pancreatic enzymes to be effective.
A word of caution – before using baking soda
One of the precautions in using sodium bicarbonate is its sodium content and it is thus advised for patients with high blood pressure to refrain from taking it. Sodium bicarbonate along with citrate and phosphate salts do not raise blood pressure to the extent that sodium chloride does.
Table salt is a refined salt containing about 97 to 99 percent sodium chloride. We know for a fact that processed (‘table’) salt does raise blood pressure in only those sensitive to it. But, obviously – hypertension is caused by much more than just the use of table salt.
A study on mineral water containing sodium bicarbonate confirmed the absence of any effect on elderly individuals’ blood pressure. But, as usual, consult with a trusted healthcare provider – to discover the safest way to use sodium bicarbonate – based on individual needs.
Looking for natural health solutions? Sign up now – for our free, weekly show featuring the greatest minds in natural health and science plus free gifts!
About the author: Jonathan Landsman is the host of NaturalHealth365.com, the NaturalHealth365 Talk Hour – a free, weekly health show and the NaturalHealth365 INNER CIRCLE – a monthly subscription to the brightest minds in natural health and healing.
Reaching hundreds of thousands of people, worldwide, as a personal health consultant, writer and radio talk show host – Jonathan has been educating the public on the health benefits of an organic (non-GMO) diet along with high-quality supplementation and healthy lifestyle habits including exercise and meditation.
References:
Baking Soda Cancer Studies and pH Medicine
https://drsircus.com/medicine/sodium-bicarbonate-baking-soda
https://www.md-health.com/Drinking-Baking-Soda.html
https://naturalhealing.cofah.com/2009/04/11/sodium-bicarbonatethe-natural-wonder-drug.aspx
Cancer & Heart Disease
NaturalHealth365
NaturalHealth365 is a premium source of trending and popular health-related news, science, testimony & research articles on the most up to date and relevant natural health information. The Food & Nutrition articles found herein are meant to inform and advise our site visitors on eating healthy, nutritious foods and safely using supplements and vitamins to achieve optimal health.
Join thousands of daily visitors staying informed and involved on Natural Health 365! We seek out scientific solutions with proven results and it is our mission to keep you up to date on the latest information! Articles range in topic from the causes of cancer, cancer-fighting foods, to natural cancer treatments, cancer prevention & specific research-backed information on Breast Cancer, Prostate Cancer, etc. We also write extensively on Heart Disease because it is accounts for 25% of all deaths in the United States – that’s one in four! We take an in depth look at the symptoms of heart disease, the causes and treatment of high blood pressure, benefits of CoQ10 and healthy, natural ways to unclog arteries.
Read Some of Our Most Popular Articles
Grape Seed Extract More Effective than Chemotherapy, Olive Oil is AWESOME, Store Bought Almond Milk is Basically Just Sugar Water, Antioxidants, Cancer & Blueberries.
Food News is one of our major post categories on www.naturalhealth365.com and contains over 350 articles that cover a wide range of subjects; including but not limited to…
Food News
Cancer Cures
Cancer
Cancer Treatment
Cancer Causes
Cancer Prevention
Breast Cancer
Prostate Cancer
Alkaline Foods
Heart Disease
Heart Disease Prevention
Foods that Lower Blood Pressure
Clogged Arteries
CoQ10 Benefits
Healthy Fats
Heart Disease Symptoms
Blood Pressure
More Food & Nutrition Articles
Fresh Organic Produce Fights Cancer, Susan G. Komen on Organic Foods, Hemp Seeds for Inflammation, Pau D’Arco For Improved Immunity
In addition to publishing articles on cutting edge natural cancer treatments and heart disease prevention, we also aim to connect healthy lifestyles, diets and balanced consumption of dietary supplements to long-lasting cancer-free health and adding happy years to your life. For example, did you know that the amount of emotional stress in your life can contribute to your risk of cancer? Or that raw, expeller-pressed olive oil has cancer fighting qualities? Perhaps you didn’t know that Fresh Organic Produce has been found to have higher concentrations of key, cancer-fighting anti-oxidants and vitamins than conventional produce? You can find all of that information and more right here on Natural Health 365.
Join Our Email List
Each day, visitors sign up for our weekly informative news sent directly to their email or RSS feed agregator. We send out three weekly emails keeping you informed and involved on the latest Natural Health News, information about our FREE SHOWS and updates on your favorite topics including Food & Nutrition, Cancer & Heart Disease, Vaccines & Autism, & – of course – GMOs & Dangerous Chemicals!
You can also check out our VIP member area, The Inner Circle, where you get access to thousands of recorded interview (audio/video), pod casts, & literature by some of the worlds foremost experts on Natural Health and Treatments that could save you thousands! Learn how to REVERSE disease without the use of toxic and expensive medications.
Natural Health 365 also is a venue for webinars on various topics, has a flourishing e-commerce store where you can purchase vitamins, pro biotics, supplements and unique products such as Grazing Goat Whey Protein.
Grazing Goat Whey Protein™ is formulated exclusively for the health-conscious consumer looking for the finest whey protein nutritional supplement on the planet.* Best of all, this goat whey protein comes from goats that graze – 365 days per year – on pesticide and chemical free pastures. No hormones, antibiotics or pesticides are used – ever. This product is non-GMO and gluten free.
Submit
RELATED NEWS
Almost 50 percent of Americans have some form of heart disease
(NaturalHealth365) Heart disease still remains the number one cause of (preventable) death …
New study: Chronic health problem linked with frequent nighttime bathroom trips
(NaturalHealth365) Have you ever heard of nocturia? It’s a medical term that …
New findings show mushrooms protect brain health
(NaturalHealth365) Mushrooms are loved in the culinary world for their rich flavor, …
Gum disease linked to dementia: New study sounds the alarm for millions of people
(NaturalHealth365) It is no secret that gum disease can lead to an …
← Previous Article
Next Article →
MOST POPULAR
This Week
1
FDA urges patients to take contaminated blood pressure drugs that raise cancer risk
2
Multiple chemical sensitivities is an overlooked worldwide health epidemic causing massive health problems
3
Shocking NEW research exposes the truth about ‘moderate’ alcohol consumption and your risk of a stroke
4
NYC Mayor threatens unvaccintaed residents: Get vaccinated or pay $1,000 fine
5
Almost 50 percent of Americans have some form of heart disease
6
New meta-analysis finds that proper vitamin D levels greatly improve the health of diabetics and heart patients
All Time
1
Microwave oven ALERT: The dangers of microwaves revealed
2
A safe and effective way to detox aluminum, scientist reports
3
Eggs EXPOSED: The difference between pasture raised, free-range and cage free
4
5 reasons why milk does NOT do a body good
5
Pro-vaccine medical expert ADMITS ‘there is a link’ between vaccinations and autism
6
Why aluminum foil can be a health hazard for you and your family
Popular Topics
Toxic Chemicals
Drug Alerts
Food News
Heart Disease
Natural Healing
Nutrition News
Vaccine Updates
Vitamin C
EMF Warnings
The Inside Scoop
Contact Us
Inner Circle Login
About Jonathan Landsman
NaturalHealth365 Store
Affiliate Disclosure
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Let’s Be Friends!
Join thousands of NaturalHealth365 Subscribers on your favorite platform!
All content on this site are the freely-expressed, individual opinions of all those involved. NaturalHealth365.com does not recommend any particular nutritional supplement or treatment option for any medical health condition. We do not intend to replace the need for professional advice in any way. Ultimately, it is up to you to work with a qualified, medical professional and make an informed decision. The information on this site is provided for educational purposes only. Your use of this website constitutes an agreement with our terms and conditions. All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks posted on this website are the property of their respective owners.
NaturalHealth365 © 2019 - All Rights Reserved.
English
Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Dutch English French German Italian Portuguese Russian Spanish