WNV-Mosquito Bite Odds (According to NYC Dept of Health) – No Spray Coalition
Skip to content
No Spray Coalition
Stopping pesticide spraying since 1999
Menu
Home
About
No Spray Lawsuit
Legal Documents
Testimony
Flyers/Health Effects
Resources
Newsletters
Related Issues
Radio Show: What’s Wrong with Pesticides?
West Nile Story In the Run-Up to 9/11
No Spray Worldwide
A Little This, a Little That
Other Sites
Books We Recommend
Press
Press Releases
Photos
Articles
Pesticides in the News
Alternatives
Donate
WNV-Mosquito Bite Odds (According to NYC Dept of Health)
[The following is an excerpt from the New York City Health Department web site early in 2000. If you do the math, you¹ll see that even the “authority” most in favor of massive spraying says that the chances of becoming sick from West Nile Virus AFTER being bitten by a mosquito is 1 in 300,000!]
Feb-14-00 10:52
Q. If I live in an area where birds with West Nile Fever have been reported, and I am bitten by a mosquito, am I likely to get sick?
A. No. Even in areas where mosquitoes do carry the virus, very few mosquitoes — perhaps only nne out of 1,000 — are infected. The chances that anyone bites will be from an infected mosquito are very small.
Q. But if I am bitten by an infected mosquito, won’t I get sick?
A. Probably not. Even if you are bitten by an infected mosquito, your chances of developing illness are roughly one in 300.
Q. I’ve gotten a mosquito bite. Should I be tested for West Nile-like virus?
A. No. Most mosquitoes are not infected with the West Nile-like virus. Illnesses related to mosquito bites are rare, especially in New York City. Patients with mild symptoms are likely to recover completely, and do not require any specific medication or laboratory testing.
Submitted by Pete Dolack
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Comment
Name Email Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Search for:
Donate to No Spray Coalition
Support our advocacy work today:
Pesticide Spraying Schedule
Department of Health spray schedule can be found here.
Follow No Spray on Facebook!
Follow No Spray on Facebook!
Follow NSC on Twitter
NO SPRAY ON TWITTER
Friends & Resources
NY Environmental Law & Justice Project
Beyond Pesticides
Sixth Street Community Center
Organic Consumers Association
WBAI Radio 99.5 FM, NYC
Join the discussion: Subscribe to our SprayNo list serve at Yahoo!.
Thinking Holistically
Pest Control Chain Reaction To treat a malaria outbreak in Borneo in the 1950s, the World Health Organization (WHO) sprayed DDT to kill mosquitoes. But the DDT also killed parasitic wasps which were controlling thatch-eating caterpillars. As a result, the thatched roofs of many homes fell down, and the DDT-poisoned insects were eaten by geckoes, which were in turn eaten by cats. The cats perished, which led to the multiplication of rats, and then outbreaks of sylvatic plague and typhus. To put an end to this destructive chain of events, WHO had to parachute 145,000 live cats into the area to control the rats.
Archives
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
November 2018
August 2018
December 2017
August 2017
June 2017
March 2017
February 2017
August 2016
June 2016
February 2016
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
Subscribe to Our Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
No Spray Coalition -- E-mail Us: info@nospray.org
Recent Posts
TWO UPCOMING EVENTS IN NEW YORK CITY
Study: You are not Gluten Intolerant; You are Glyphosate Intolerant
(no title)
Coconut-Derived Insect Repellent More Effective Than Hazardous DEET
New Mosquito Spraying “Events”: Toxic Pesticides to be Sprayed by Truck August 22 & 23 in Queens, Bronx, Brooklyn (2X)
© 2019 No Spray Coalition • Powered by GeneratePress
Scroll back to top
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.