Are Himalayan Salt Lamps Safe: Understanding Its Uniqueness
Lamps, Lights and Shade
The Best Salt Lamp Reviews and Advice
Home
Salt Lamp Reviews
Salt Lamp Advice
Are Himalayan Salt Lamps Safe: Understanding Its Uniqueness
Spread the love
The use of Himalayan Salt Lamps are a growing trend, and you might have seen them already in homes and yoga studios, even on top of office desks and spa reception desks. They are these pinkish orange blocks of rock that seem to glow and emanate a feeling of warmth and contentment, which may make you wonder, “are Himalayan Salt Lamps safe?”
These unique fixtures are often used for both their aesthetic quality as well as their supposed properties that aim to improve your mental and spiritual well-being. Its unique shape is also one of a kind, and it makes a great conversation piece, regardless of where you put it.
What Are Himalayan Salt Lamps?
Himalayan Salt Lamps are crafted from pink salt crystals that are said to be sourced from high up the Himalayan mountains in Asia. It is said to be the only place where one can mine this kind of salt and has been deposited there for more than a few numbers of years.
These crystals are mined in big blocks and then cut into smaller pieces before hollowing them out for fitting small light bulbs inside. They are then mounted on top of wooden bases that aim to complement the rough texture of the salt block with is smooth and varnished finish.
Sometimes, Himalayan Salt Lamps come in the form of wicker baskets filled with smaller crystals of salt with a light source underneath. The salt used in making either form of Himalayan Salt Lamp is often food-grade and comes in its purest form.
How to Use Himalayan Salt Lamps?
Himalayan Salt Lamps already have a variety of uses, be it in the comfort of your home or atop your office desk, staving away stress and whatnot from the daily grind. Most owners would place them in open areas where they can relax or in conference rooms and reception areas where stress and tension are felt almost exclusively.
Their unique design makes them flexible enough to fit into any architectural character, although the pinkish to orange coloring might offset the color themes of most interior spaces. Regardless if it blends or not, Himalayan Salt Lamps have found a place in most homes and offices with a holistic vibe in them.
How Does Himalayan Salt Lamp Work?
It is said that salt attracts water molecules from its surrounding environment, and it is said that Himalayan Salt Lamps absorb these molecules along with other pollutants that may be present in the air around you. In essence, Himalayan Salt Lamps detoxifies your room for you, especially since the lamp inside heats the crystal and releases pure water vapor back, trapping the contaminants within it.
What Are the Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamps?
Himalayan Salt Lamps have been said to have positive health attributes which can be beneficial, but it also has a few other benefits that are worth looking into.
A. Non-Health Benefits
The non-health benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamps are pretty much dependent on the person looking at it, but they are generally true.
Conversation Pieces
The unique coloring and shape of Himalayan Salt Lamps make it a one-of-a-kind decorative piece inside an office or living room which can invite comment as to its properties and source. This would kick off interesting conversation among friends and strangers, which can make it a highlight of their evening, if not yours.
Source of Ambient Lighting
The light emitted from inside the crystal is bright enough to see things around it, but the salt crystal is opaque enough to prevent too much light from going through. This makes the light shining from it warm and comfortable and can set the ambiance of any room or work area.
Dim Lighting at Night
The aforementioned dim light also substitutes as a dim light at night, especially since the lamp does not emit the usual bright light that may cause untoward accidents to those who just woke up.
Adds Character
The uniqueness of its shape and color adds character to any space, especially if the use of the space and the purpose of the lamp complement each other.
B. Health Benefits
Practitioners of alternative medicine and professionals agree that Himalayan Salt Lamps may have some lasting benefits to one’s health, but these might need more studies to prove its veracity. Here are a few of its benefits:
Helps With Sleeping Problems
Himalayan Salt Lamps have been said to emit negative ions which can help reverse sleep deprivation problems as well as help rejuvenate cells while you sleep.
Improves Mood
A side effect of feeling relaxed while using a Himalayan Salt Lamp is that you feel less stressed, which also improves your mood.
Cleanses the Air
The hygroscopic properties of salt are said to be helpful in cleansing the air around you by attracting and absorbing water molecules, as well as pollutants and other contaminants, and then trapping them inside the crystal while the heat from the lamp releases pure water vapor which translates to cleaner air.
Soothes Allergies
A side effect of having cleaner air is that allergens are also reduced, thus decreasing the chances of an allergy attack or prevents allergies from worsening.
Light and Color Therapy
The ambient light and soft colors that Himalayan Salt Lamps generate help in light and color therapy, especially since the particular hues that this lamp emit is helpful in calming people with high anxiety levels.
Are Himalayan Salt Lamps Safe?
Generally speaking, natural minerals contain heavy metals, like lead and mercury, which can hurt your health. A naturally occurring mineral, salts are not an exception from carrying these heavy metals within its particles, and even the smallest bit can pose a threat.
So, are Himalayan salt lamps safe? Yes, salt as a whole is safe to use and consume. This goes the same for Himalayan Salt Lamps as the particles of heavy metals found in salt is too small to pose a risk, and the salt from Himalayan Salt Lamps are not for human consumption as well.
Himalayan Salt Lamps are safe, but salt as a whole may not be as safe as you want it to be, especially if there is too much of it in your diet. Keep in mind to use salt in moderation, and use your salt lamp the same way.
Mineralamp NSL-101 Natural Himalayan Hand Carved Salt Lamp with Indian Rosewood Base Review	Voltas Himalayan Salt Lamp: A Natural Choice
Related Posts
Advice, Salt Lamp Advice
Do Salt Lamps Melt: A Common Misconception
Advice, Salt Lamp Advice
How Long Can You Leave A Salt Lamp On: Salt Lamp Care Tips
Advice, Salt Lamp Advice
Why is My Salt Lamp Turning White: Getting to Know Your Salt Lamp
Leave a Reply Close
Name (required)
Mail (required)
Website
Follow us
twitter
google
pinterest
facebook
youtube
Recent Reviews
Levoit Aria Himalayan Salt Lamp Product Review
Levoit Elora Himalayan Salt Lamp Review
Voltas Himalayan Salt Lamp: A Natural Choice
Mineralamp NSL-101 Natural Himalayan Hand Carved Salt Lamp with Indian Rosewood Base Review
Keep Calm & Enjoy The Best Quality Himalayan Salt Lamps
Serch
Recent Articles
Do Salt Lamps Melt: A Common Misconception
How Long Can You Leave A Salt Lamp On: Salt Lamp Care Tips
Why is My Salt Lamp Turning White: Getting to Know Your Salt Lamp
How to Tell If a Salt Lamp Is Real: Authenticity Checklist
How Long Do Salt Lamps Last and Other Things You Need to Know About Them
Lamps, Lights and Shade
Copyright © 2017 Lamps Lights And Shade.
Important Information
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Follow us
twitter
google
pinterest
facebook
youtube
Disclaimer
Some recommended products may use affiliate links. LampsLightsAndShade.com is a participant
in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program,
an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn
advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. Amazon and the Amazon
logo are trademarks of Amazon.com, Inc or its affiliates.