Orange Carrot Soup - Paleo Grubs
Menu
Search for:
Paleo Diet 101
Recipes
Best Paleo Recipes
Breakfast
Dinner
Dessert
Snacks
Sides
Breads
Drinks
Condiments
Soups
Salads
Salad Dressing
Chicken
Ground Beef
Paleo Foods
Meal Plan
Recipes
Orange Carrot Soup
0 from 0 ratings
It’s soup season! Don’t get me wrong – I’ll make and eat soup any time of the year, but when it’s cold out I make and eat soup almost every other night and I eat the leftovers for lunch. Soup keeps me warm, fills me up, and is generally way easier to make than a lot of people think. And this recipe for orange carrot soup is no different. It will fill your belly and your heart with good stuff for your body.
Serving Size
1
Calories/Serving
96
Sign up for Free
This soup is almost as basic as it gets – but it doesn’t taste that way. The mix of cumin and coriander seeds, the earthy sweetness of fresh carrots, and, finally, the sparkling touch of citrus brings everything together. Like any well-rounded dish, this orange carrot soup hits most of the main flavor categories: sweet, savory, salty, and just a touch of sour from the zing of the citrus.
With all that complexity of flavor, you’d think it would be hard to make this soup, but it’s not. In fact, it won’t take you long at to whip this up: just a little bit of chopping and a little bit of sautéing, and then the soup makes itself for a half hour, simmering on the stove while you take a break and put your feet up and watch that show you DVR’d yesterday. Before you even finish your show, your soup will be ready to be blended and, in two minutes, you’ll be back to watching your show, but this time with a warm bowl of soup in your hands.
Aside from being easy to make and delicious, you can feel good about this soup because it’s full of stuff that’s good for you. Carrots are loaded with vitamin A, which is critical for good eye health, not just when we’re growing up, but as adults too. It can help prevent dry eyes and keeps your eyes healthier as you age. Of course we all know what the orange in this recipe provides: vitamin C. Vitamin C helps give your immune system a boost, so in cold weather this is extra important. And remember: don’t skimp on the healthy fats. In this recipe, that’s the olive oil. While some vitamins, like vitamin C, are water soluble (meaning they dissolve in water), others, like vitamin A, are fat soluble so you need to have that good fat in your diet to help your body process these vitamins.
There are plenty of nights where my entire meal is a bowl of soup. Sometimes I grab a few Paleo crackers or a Paleo roll that I made earlier in the week, if I’m extra hungry. But this soup is so elegant, that it deserves to be shared with important guests. I use small tea cups or shot glasses to serve just a few spoonfuls worth of soup to each of my guests as the first course of a sit-down meal. It doesn’t fill them up so much that they won’t be hungry for dinner, but it will ignite their taste buds and get them ready for a great meal.
When I have some of this soup left over, either from my dinner the previous night or from a dinner party with friends, I will often bring it to work. It heats up quickly and evenly and I generally throw together a salad with a good portion of protein in it to have alongside my soup. I need that protein to get me through my day! Leftover chicken, beef, or seafood goes great with some greens and a few crunchy vegetables. Toss it all with olive oil and lemon juice and voila – a gourmet lunch.
Whether you keep this soup all to yourself or share with friends and whether it’s for lunch or dinner (and I’m not counting out breakfast!) it’s going to leave a happy, healthy smile on your face because you’ll know you’ve done something good for yourself. And, you’ll have enjoyed it at the same time!
(Make this next: Hearty Paleo Vegetable Soup)
Ingredients
2 pounds carrots, peeled and chopped
1 medium onion, chopped
2 tbsp olive oil
5 cups homemade chicken soup or water
½ tsp ground coriander seeds
½ tsp ground cumin
½ tsp orange zest
juice from 1 orange
1 tbsp chopped fresh coriander
salt, black pepper to taste
Directions
In a large pot heat the olive oil over medium heat.
Add the ground coriander and cumin and cook, stirring, for 30 seconds.
Add the onion and cook for 5 minutes.
Add the carrots and cook for 5 minutes.
Add the chicken stock and bring to the boil.
Lower the heat, cover with a lid and simmer for 30-40 minutes or until carrots are tender.
Add the orange juice and zest.
Puree the soup completely using an immersion blender.
Season with salt and black pepper to taste.
Divide the soup between serving bowls, sprinkle with fresh coriander and serve
Servings
Serving Size
1
Servings/Recipe
12
Nutrition Information
Calories
96
Carbohydrates
13 g
Fat
3.7 g
Sugar
6.6 g
Protein
3.5 g
Fiber
2.6 g
Calories
96 kcal
Potassium
384.1 mg
Vitamin A
634.4 µg
Vitamin C
11.4 mg
Folic Acid (B9)
24.6 µg
Sodium
461.4 mg
Print Recipe
Jess (Paleo Grubs)
I eat and live the Paleo lifestyle everyday. I love helping people discover new paleo recipes and enjoy giving helpful tips on the Paleo diet and creating new recipes. I have been following a Paleo lifestyle for the last 5 years and have never been happier. Are a blogger, website owner or social media influencer? Take a look at the Paleo Grubs Book affiliate program to see if you qualify to receive up to $39/referral.
View More
carrot
orange
soup
You May Also Like
Recipes
The Best Roasted Carrot and Avocado Salad Ever
Recipes
Easy Roasted Carrots with a Honey Garlic Glaze
Recipe Lists
26 Dreamy Carrot Cakes for a Guilt-Free Paleo Dessert Fix
Recipes
Paleo Slaw with The Best Homemade Avocado Dressing Ever
Dessert
Naked Paleo Carrot Cake (OH MY!)
Featured
39 Carrot Recipes All Paleo Followers Should Try
0 Comments
Ask a Question Rate this Recipe
Ask a Question Rate this Recipe
Ask a Question/Comment Cancel reply
Comment
Rate this recipe:
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Recent Paleo Recipes
Melt-In-Your-Mouth Paleo Almond Butter Cups
Comforting Crockpot Chicken Pumpkin Paleo Chili
Homemade Paleo Milky Way Candy Bars (Try these!)
Crunchy Homemade Paleo Kit Kat Candy Bars (ermahgerd!)
Easy Paleo Crockpot Tomato Basil Soup
Easy and Soul-Satisfying Paleo Crockpot Egg Drop Soup
Creamy Paleo Crockpot Broccoli Soup (So Good!)
Goji Berry Paleo Chocolate Bark (For a Healthy Snack)
Paleo Bacon Wrapped Chicken – Comforting, Oven-Baked Recipe
Anti-Inflammatory Apple Cider Vinegar Energy Bites
WHAT I’M INTO RIGHT NOW
Popular Paleo Recipes
The Best Fudgy Paleo Brownies Ever - Easy and Flourless Brownie Recipe
Roasted Butternut Squash Soup (Best Paleo Soup Ever!)
Homemade Paleo Tortilla Chips
Hearty Paleo Vegetable Soup
Easy Mashed Cauliflower with Garlic (Yummy!)
The Best Paleo Banana Nut Muffins Ever (OMG!)
Paleo Diet 101
Recipes
Best Paleo Recipes
Breakfast
Dinner
Dessert
Snacks
Sides
Breads
Drinks
Condiments
Soups
Salads
Salad Dressing
Chicken
Ground Beef
Paleo Foods
Meal Plan
© 2019 Paleo Grubs. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Facebook icon Twitter icon Instagram icon Pinterest icon Google+ icon YouTube icon LinkedIn icon Contact icon