The Bali Times » News Archive »
Indonesia's Leading English News Website, Direct Daily from the Island of Bali
Tuesday 23rd April 2019
Home
About Us
Real Estate
Travel Info
Classifieds
Employment
Contact Us
Subscriptions
Best Print & Online Advertising
Sections
Advertorial
Anand Krishna
Arts & Entertainment
Business Profiles
Covershot
Discovery
Editorial
Harmony
Headlines
Health
Human Nature
I Love Bali Because…
ILAND
Instinct
Interlude
Jerry Zezima
Letters
LIFE
LifeTimes
Longevity News & Review
Man of the House
My Bali Story
My Compound Life
One Day
Opinion
Our World
Paradox In Paradise
Paulo Coelho
Perspective
Practical Paradise
Real Estate Sales
Rio Helmi
Special Report
The Big Questions
The Dalai Lama
The Island
The Nation
Travel & Culture
Ubud
Villa Rentals
Vox Populi
Vyt's Line
Week Ahead
Sponsors
VillaBaliSale.com
proven to have the trusted network and the experience to help you find that perfect property. With many years of experience, anda massive listings of Villa and Land for sale, their agents have the expertise and the local knowledge to help customers find that perfect home and investment in Kuta, Canggu, Seminyak, Kerobokan, Sanur, Jimbaran or anywhere in Bali. VillaBaliSale.com +62 361 805 0000
Schoolies Blinded by Spiked Cocktails in Bali
December 31, 2012
SYDNEY
A Teenage girl has been blinded after drinking a tainted cocktail while on a schoolies trip to Bali.
The 18-year-old is believed to be the worst affected of a number of people who have fallen seriously ill after drinking cocktails spiked with methanol. An 18-year-old boy was also temporarily blinded during a schoolies trip to Bali last month.
The girl, from Sydney’s northern suburbs, went to the emergency department of Royal North Shore Hospital after returning from overseas last week.
A hospital spokeswoman confirmed girl had been admitted, saying: “There was a female patient that apparently had received treatment in Bali and had then presented to Royal North Shore.”
The hospital would not say what symptoms the teenager had displayed but The Sunday Telegraph can confirm she has been discharged and is continuing to recover at home.
The effects of methanol poisoning can range from vomiting, headaches and gastric pain, to comas, liver failure and, in extreme cases, death. Blindness is also common – it can last a few hours or lead to permanent damage.
The mother of the other teenager, from regional NSW, told yesterday how he almost had a fatal experience after drinking a methanol-laced cocktail.
Jan Bowler said: “The Red Frogs team found him lying in the garden of his motel so they took him to his room because he was complaining he had pins and needles in his face and that his eyesight was being affected.
“He said his eyes were hurting so much he put a cold towel over his face. By the time he got to hospital, he couldn’t see a thing, so they gave him some injections to counteract the methanol.”
Foreign Minister Bob Carr said several other cases had been reported by travellers.
“There have been other local reports of drink spiking cases this year,” he said.
“But not every case is brought to the attention of our consular staff. Spiked drinks might contain drugs, or they might contain poisons like methanol. Methanol is extremely toxic and poisoning can cause serious injury and blindness.
“We’re aware of one young Australian hospitalised in Indonesia after drinking what may have been methanol. I wish her all the best in her recovery.”
Methanol is a toxic chemical that is sometimes added to cheap drinks to make them more alcoholic.
In many cases poisoning has occurred when arrack – a local drink of coconut flower, rice and sugarcane spirit mixed with fruit juice – has methanol added.
Volunteer group Red Frogs headed to Bali for the first time this year after being briefed by agencies and hospitals.
Red Frogs Bali co-ordinator Paul Mergard said: “We treated and hospitalised around five schoolies for methanol poisoning and out of them there was one we had great concern for.
“I would suspect that the real number is much higher,” he said. “We had some we sent to hospital who were quite sick but we probably didn’t see the worst of what was happening because we took them to hospital where they were treated.”
Mr Mergard is calling for more awareness regarding the tainted drinks, saying: “The scary thing is these kids don’t know what they are drinking. It is mixed through cocktails.”
Despite being aware of numerous cases of methanol poisoning overseas, the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has provided only general warnings.
Its website says “Foreigners have died or become seriously ill after consuming brand name alcohol or local spirits adulterated with harmful substances”.
Filed under: Headlines
Leave a Reply
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website
Print Edition
Archives
April 14, 2019–April 20, 2019
March 31, 2019–April 6, 2019
February 10, 2019–February 16, 2019
January 20, 2019–January 26, 2019
January 13, 2019–January 19, 2019
January 6, 2019–January 12, 2019
December 2, 2018–December 8, 2018
November 11, 2018–November 17, 2018
November 4, 2018–November 10, 2018
Tweets by @The_Bali_Times
Les Toits de Bali
Les toits de Bali is one of the leaders of the villa rentals in Bali since 2007. Lestoitsdebali.com (Website in French) provides a complete selection of all the villas & its location for your accommodation needs during your holiday stay in Bali. +62.361.736035
Copyright © 2019 The Bali Times - All Rights Reserved.
Jl. Laksmana No. 151, Seminyak, Bali, Indonesia 80361
Tel: 0361 733 597 | Fax: 0361 739407