Lower Cholesterol | Vasacor Cholesterol Treatment
Site Map | Contact Us | Home
Home
About Vasacor
Cholesterol Facts
FAQs
Order Now!
Previous Next
Lower Cholesterol
Cholesterol is a problem faced by nearly 60% of all adults over the age of 45. High levels of LDL especially in arteries can put increased pressure on the heart and other organs and lead to blockages and clotting that cause heart attack and stroke. To lower cholesterol, there are multiple things that can be done, primarily focusing on reducing the sources of new cholesterol, and removing the existing cholesterol from the body.
Proper Exercise
Proper exercise is a primary means of achieving lower cholesterol. Doctors recommend 30 minutes of aerobic exercise 3-4 times a week to significantly lower the risk of diseases like diabetes and heart disease. Even just a short walk can help lower cholesterol however.
Avoid Saturated Fats
Studies have found that simply eating foods with cholesterol is not the only way that cholesterol levels increase. To lower cholesterol efficiently, foods with saturated fats from either animal or plant sources should be avoided altogether. This includes most red meats, certain nuts, and many seed oils that are high in such fat.
Eat Fiber
A diet high in fiber will help lower cholesterol of both types. A diet should ensure that it has plenty of both soluble and insoluble fiber in it, but the soluble fiber is most important as it contains the necessary bonds that will latch onto LDL and remove it from the body.
Red Yeast Rice
The inclusion of Red Yeast Rice in the diet will help lower cholesterol as it inhibits the production of cholesterol in the body, while working to scrub it away from the liver and arteries.
Lifestyle Changes
Additionally, lifestyle changes such as removing alcohol and cigarettes from daily routines can significantly help in reducing cholesterol by taking outside and unnecessary stressors away from the body so it can focus on removing the LDL and HDL from your body to lower cholesterol. Additionally, reducing stress levels through massage, vacation, and regular time off can help lower cholesterol.
To effectively lower cholesterol and ensure the body is capable of maintaining those lower levels, good diet, regular exercise and a lifestyle that does not ingest too many poisons and ensures the right volume of rest and relaxation are good supports.
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.
Vasacor Cholesterol Treatment Content Copyright © 2006-2019 Vasacor - Speedwinds Nutrition Inc.
Home | About Vasacor | Cholesterol Facts | Testimonials | FAQs | Guarantee | Order Now | Privacy Policy
Reduce Cholesterol | Lower Cholesterol | Lower Cholesterol Naturally | Reduce Cholesterol Naturally
Red Yeast Rice Cholesterol | Natural Cholesterol Reduction | Cholesterol Supplement | Site Map
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.
Vasacor Cholesterol Treatment Content Copyright © 2006-2019 Vasacor - Speedwinds Nutrition Inc.
Home
Contact Us
About Vasacor
Site Map