Vaping and Pregnancy: The Beginning of a New Life - VapingDaily
Best Vapes
Best Vapes
Vape Pens
Vape Mods
Vape Juices
Dry Herb Vaporizers
Best Dab Pens
E-Cigs
Pod Vapes
All In One Vapes (AIO)
Best Vape Starter Kits
Vape Deals
Vape Deals
Cheap Vapes
Reviews
GUIDES
Health & Vaping Guides
What is Vaping
Vaping vs. Smoking
Nicotine Guide
Vape Wires and Coils Guide
Nicotine Salts
Vaping 101
Vaping Glossary
Best Online Vape Stores
HOW TO QUIT
Blog
Search text
Home
What Is Vaping?
Vaping and Pregnancy: The Beginning of a New Life
Vaping and Pregnancy: The Beginning of a New Life
How can vaping affect my pregnancy?
The effect vaping has on pregnant women is still a topic of research. However, nicotine use narrows the blood vessels, which can result in lack of oxygen and nutrients for the baby. At the same time, e-cigs contain chemicals that might be carcinogenic. Last but not least, secondhand exposure is also harmful to you and the baby.
Can I vape during pregnancy?
Nobody can stop you, but the safest option, according to experts, is to stay away from vaping and smoking. Vaping can lead to numerous problems, such as difficulties with the placenta, premature birth, stillbirth, low weight, nicotine withdrawal, and congenital disabilities. Vaping after pregnancy also has a negative effect on kids and may lead to vaping addiction.
Vaping and Pregnancy
Pregnancy is one of the most miraculous events in people’s lives. However, pregnancy comes with some physical restrictions and social changes that mothers endure. Campaigns promote no smoking and no drinking practices, which for some individuals are way too demanding. While it’s true that an occasional glass of wine, for instance, won’t harm you, it’s also true that leading a healthy lifestyle during pregnancy is crucial for you and your baby.
Although vaping has become a socially accepted habit and a trendy way to socialize, experts state that vaping is becoming a significant health concern across the U.S., especially when it comes to moms-to-be. Simply because vaping can have an adverse impact on the mother and her baby.
How Does Vaping Affect Pregnancy?
As e-cigs and vaporizers come in all shapes and flavors, vaping is something hard to regulate. In fact, up to 2016, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration couldn’t keep track on all the hundreds of brands and thousands of flavors on the market. What’s more, vaping and pregnancy is a topic that has not been researched in-depth yet; it would be unethical to expose a mother to any potential risks. Thus, in the mist of all this variety and uncertainty, experts claim that it’s safest not to vape while pregnant.
Let’s start with the most addictive substance people worldwide use: nicotine. Okay, some vaporizers do not contain nicotine, but most of them, do. Note that experts revealed that some of the nicotine levels listed are misleading. As nicotine narrows the blood vessels, it might be harder for your baby to get all the nutrients and oxygen through the placenta. If a placental insufficiency occurs, an emergency c-section might be performed before your due date. Last but not least, nicotine is highly addictive and coping with addiction during pregnancy might cause additional stress on the body.
On top of that, e-cigs contain many chemicals and experts can’t be sure which toxins reach the baby and which not. In fact, the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency revealed that some chemicals are carcinogenic. A study showed that after the e-liquid’s been heated, chemicals like formaldehyde are formed, which is carcinogenic.
Far from the physical health of the pregnant woman, vaping may affect her social health. As often any unhealthy habit during pregnancy is easily stigmatized by people, expectant women who vape may experience isolation or verbal abuse, which can cause additional stress to the body. Any burst of cortisol can hurt the fetus.
Can I Vape While Pregnant?
Nobody can stop you, but as mentioned above, vaping during pregnancy has a negative effect on you and your baby. If you’ve stopped smoking and switched to vaping as a ‘safer’ option, have in mind that studies show that people who vape are actually 28% less likely to stop smoking.
In fact, e-cigs are not approved as a smoking cessation aid, and it’s better to use other products, such nicotine gums, as there are more regulations on the products and research.
As nicotine exposure can cause brain damage. Illnesses like schizophrenia and Alzheimer’s disease can be a consequence of that exposure. Exposing a developing brain to doses of nicotine may start that damage early.
What about vaping with 0mg nicotine juices?
Though it seems like it should be safer to vape without nicotine while pregnant, there are some studies that show that it is equally dangerous. Since these are early days in the context of vaping, there are no concrete results that definitively say that it is 100% safe or unsafe.
Anyway, have in mind that staying nicotine-free is the safest option for you and your baby.
Vaping During Pregnancy: What Are The Risks?
Vaping can be harmful before and after birth. As mentioned earlier, one of the main risks is problems with the placenta. Placental insufficiency or placenta abruption can be fatal.
Other risks include:
Preterm labor
Stillbirth
Low birth weight
Birth defects
Children may develop further problems, such as:
Asthma
ADHD
Note that the newborn may go through nicotine withdrawal, which can lead to trouble sleeping, eating disorders, and irritability.
Therefore, many organizations, such as the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, recommend avoiding vaping and smoking during pregnancy and breastfeeding.
Dealing appropriately with nicotine withdrawal symptoms is very important for the long-term brain development of the child. If your baby was exposed to nicotine while in the womb and is showing signs of nicotine withdrawal, then it is wise to take extra care in the rearing of a behaviorally vulnerable baby.
Vaping Near A Pregnant Woman
Vaping in public may harm any person. Experts claim that secondhand exposure is dangerous due to nicotine emissions and other chemicals in the aerosol.
More research is needed, but signs are pointing towards there being unsafe levels of nicotine for pregnant women in the second-hand vapor. This could be particularly hazardous when in a small space for hours per day surrounded by vapors. What’s more, secondhand exposure increases the risks of breathing problems and other health risks in kids. In teens, vaping can lead to copying the parental model and vaping addiction.
In conclusion, vaping is a popular trend, which hasn’t been researched in-depth yet. However, numerous organizations are urging the government to create proper regulations that would reduce the potential risks for secondhand vapors.
Although quitting is hard, remember that vaping can have a negative effect on you and your baby. Therefore, try to find the right treatment and social support you need during pregnancy and after birth. Light up the future of you and your little one.
Published: October 10, 2017 Updated: April 5, 2019
Follow:
Posted by
Jeffrey Buckley
I was a smoker for over 25 years. In this time I also earned my medical degree with a specialization in addiction treatment and counseling. That period has led me to vaping, my interest started around 2011. I’m fighting the tide of hysteria and dis-information around vaping that emanates from various fronts legislative, cultural and scientific. Having scientific councils support, I’m happy to contribute my thoughts, articles, and expertise.
Top Vapes for Beginners
Best E-Cigs
Vape Starter Kits
Best Vape Pens
Vape Pens for E-Liquids
Nicotine Free Vapes
Best Vape Juices
Vape Accessories
Top Advanced Vapes
Best Box Mods
Tube Mods
Mech Mods
Squonk Mods
Vape Tanks
Vape Tanks
Sub-Ohm Tanks
Rebuildable Tank Atomizers (RTAs)
Rebuildable Dripping Atomizers (RDAs)
Dry Herb Atomizers
Alternative Vaping
Best Dry Herb Vaporizers
Weed Vape Pens
Best Dab Wax Pens
E-nails and E-rigs
CBD Vape Pens
Portable Vaporizers
Vape Pens for Oils
Desktop Vapes
Comments
Leave a comment
Cancel Reply
Comment
Author Email
6 comments on “Vaping and Pregnancy: The Beginning of a New Life”
Jennifer
September 26, 2018 at 8:21 pm
I haven’t had the chance to ask my doctor about vaping yet, but I switch from smoking cigarettes to vape. And I personally feel much better I’ve been a chronic smoker for over twenty years and this is my first time pregnant, I can only Pray and hope my unborn is born healthy , happy and strong. Thank You
Reply
Jennifer
September 26, 2018 at 8:20 pm
I haven’t had the chance to ask my doctor about vaping yet, but I switch from smoking cigarettes to vape. And I personally feel much better I’ve been a chronic smoker for over twenty years and this is my first time pregnant, I can only Pray and hope my unborn is born healthy , happy and strong. Thank You
Reply
Lisa
September 14, 2018 at 9:51 pm
All through her pregnancy my son and his girlfriend were vaping. I kept telling her it was not a very good thing to be doing even though they both insisted that the vape liquids were all natural. I said it didn’t matter, you are still putting something into your body that doesn’t belong there and it is getting into your baby. Well, the baby had a good birth weight and everything is going well “BUT” he has flunked 2 hearing tests! Another note my sister’s sons girlfriend smoked cigarettes throughout her pregnancy and her 3 year old is also considered deaf.
Reply
Aspen Charney
June 8, 2018 at 11:24 pm
Does using a vape get you dizzy if your pregnant
Reply
Jacob
July 8, 2018 at 1:21 pm
If you feel dizzy it’s either from the nicotice, if it’s in the juice or from lack of oxygen, where you’ve vaped continuously for too long and are light headed
Reply
daniela
August 15, 2018 at 3:50 pm
I experience the same… but idk if I am really pregnant
Reply
The information on this site is not intended or implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. There is absolutely no assurance that any statement contained or cited in an article touching on medical matters is true, correct, precise, or up-to-date. The overwhelming majority of such articles are written, in part or in whole, by nonprofessionals.
WARNING: The content of this website is for informational purposes only and not to be considered as medical advice. E-cigarettes are not approved by the FDA as a quit smoking aid. The products we review on this website, as well as the information provided, are intended for use by responsible adults over the age of 18 (or the legal tobacco possession age in your area).
About Us
Contacts
Career
Disclosures
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Our Rating Process
Advertising
Follow us:
Email: [email protected]
Phone: (650) 560-4503
Quit Smoking Community LLC 1325
Drury Lane, South Lyon, MI 48178
© VapingDaily, All Rights Reserved.
Copy and paste this code at Domain
Get deal