Fructose found in sports drinks raises your risk of Type 2 diabetes
Fructose found in sports drinks raises your risk of Type 2 diabetes
03/06/2019 / By Zoey Sky
Both fruits and sweetened beverages — which include soda and sports drinks — have fructose, also known as fruit sugar. However, fruits also contain dietary fiber which helps counterbalance the effects of fructose, something that the latter does not have. In a review published in the journal The BMJ, scientists found that consuming these sugary drinks can increase your risk for Type 2 diabetes.
The dangers of sugary beverages
For the review, Dr. John Sievenpiper and his fellow researchers from the University of Toronto in Canada analyzed data from 155 nutritional studies on 5,086 individuals. The study included people with and without diabetes, measuring how blood glucose levels responded from various food sources of fructose, with the average follow-up ranging from one to 76 weeks.
The findings suggest that fructose from fruit, fruit juices, and other natural sources are less likely to increase risk factors related to Type 2 diabetes, unlike fructose found in sugary beverages. The simple sugar fructose is naturally found in fruits and vegetables. However, it’s also used in high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS), which is used to sweeten beverages like sodas. Sievenpiper, the study’s lead author and an endocrinologist at St. Michael’s Hospital, explained that when sugars provide excess calories, they may have negative metabolic effects that can increase your risk for diabetes. He also added that the effect was mostly observed in sugar-sweetened beverages which don’t have any nutritional value.
These sweetened drinks increased both glucose and insulin while also providing excess calories. Since none of the studies included in the review measured Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1C, a two- to three-month average of an individual’s blood sugar level), the researchers are unable to determine the effect of excess calories on HbA1C. But the research team warns that the negative side effect calories on glucose and insulin would also have an adverse effect on HbA1C.
Can the consumption of fruit lower diabetes risk?
Sievenpiper said that even though fruits contained excess calories, they don’t negatively affect glucose or insulin. People with diabetes can consume fruit in moderation, especially if they want to control their blood sugar.
Dr. Osama Hamdy, medical director of the obesity clinical program and director of the inpatient diabetes program at the Joslin Diabetes Center at Harvard Medical School in Boston, said that fruit can also help boost the intestine’s microbiota or the microorganisms that live in the gut. Fructose from natural sources like fruit also functions as a soluble fiber, which can help slow the absorption of fructose and reduce “bad”/low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol.
According to the American Diabetes Association, people should refrain from drinking sugar-sweetened beverages like energy drinks, fruit punch, soda, and sweet tea. Aside from raising blood sugar, sugary drinks can also add hundreds of empty calories to your diet. (Related: Sports and energy drinks are ‘essentially sodas without carbonation,’ state researchers exploring health risks of sugary beverages.)
Empty calories are linked to weight gain, and being overweight is a risk factor for developing diabetes. If you need an energy boost, switch to natural energy-boosting options like:
Bananas
Caffeine
Coconut water
Homemade energy drinks (made with water, orange juice, maple syrup, and organic salt)
Raisins
Sievenpiper warned that even though fruit is beneficial, fruit juice contains excess calories. He noted that you can consume at least half a cup of natural fruit daily if you use to complement a diet full of whole fruits and vegetables.
Dr. Jan Rystrom, a registered dietitian and diabetes educator at the Swedish Medical Center who was not involved in the study, added that fructose’s effect on overall health deserves further analysis. She added that as a food additive, “fructose has a cumulative effect in tissue, particularly in the lens of the eye.”
Several studies suggest this accumulation of fructose in lens tissue is linked to the development of cataracts, a common health complication of diabetes.
If you wish to lower your diabetes risk, Dr. Hamdy suggested that you consume more whole fruit instead of drinking fruit juices. Limit your intake of foods that contain refined sugar, like cake, cookies, and candy.
Always choose natural sources over sweetened beverages, and don’t overconsume whole fruit to stay healthy.
Sources include:
EverydayHealth.com
HuffPost.com
Tagged Under: blood sugar, calories, children's health, diabetes, diabetes prevention, diabetes risk, diabetes risk factors, diabetes risk reduction, diet, fructose, glucose, insulin, men's health, nutrition, soda, sports drinks, sugar, Sugars, sugary drinks, sweetened drinks, women's health
Comments
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
RECENT NEWS & ARTICLES
Say no to acrylamide: The 4 health risks associated with french fries
03/23/2019 / By Zoey Sky
“Impossible Burger” is just THAT, because it’s GMO
03/21/2019 / By S.D. Wells
Stay away from these questionable granola bars, says nutritionist
03/20/2019 / By Amy Goodrich
Liver damage due to aspartame linked to adipocytokines
03/20/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
Not all decorative food glitters are safe to eat, warn health officials
03/20/2019 / By Zoey Sky
Study provides evidence that dietary salt intake influences the health of your heart
03/18/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
No surprise here: Western diets cause life-threatening fatty liver disease – can we reverse it?
03/16/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
A bowl of lies: Here’s why chicken noodle soup (especially store-bought ones) is not as healthy as you think
03/16/2019 / By Zoey Sky
It’s time to stop grilling: 7 Health risks of consuming hot dogs
03/16/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
8 Signs of sugar addiction… and tips to control your sweet tooth
03/14/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
Toxic foods that may cause dementia
03/14/2019 / By Zoey Sky
Study suggests that eating peanuts instead of junk food can lead to better eating habits
03/12/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
Too good to be true: Study confirms that artificial sweeteners can’t promote weight loss
03/12/2019 / By Isabelle Z.
If you’re still eating these cancer-causing foods, here are some reasons to stop
03/12/2019 / By Amy Goodrich
An hour is all it takes: Drinking a can of soda ‘overloads’ the body with sugar and damages it in just 60 minutes
03/07/2019 / By Isabelle Z.
Fructose found in sports drinks raises your risk of Type 2 diabetes
03/06/2019 / By Zoey Sky
New study finds that aspartame-sweetened diet soda causes stroke, dementia risks to skyrocket… is aspartame DESTROYING brain function?
03/05/2019 / By S.D. Wells
BPA-free alternatives are not as safe as we thought, stunning new research shows
03/02/2019 / By Lance D Johnson
Prenatal high-salt diet leads to complications in offspring
03/01/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
Horrendous food habits of the young: Less than half eat a single fruit or vegetable each day
02/28/2019 / By Tim Wesley
JunkFood.News is a fact-based public education website published by Junk Food News Features, LLC.
All content copyright © 2018 by Junk Food News Features, LLC.
Contact Us with Tips or Corrections
All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks mentioned on this site are the property of their respective owners.
Privacy Policy