BisLinks® Titanium Magnetic Health Bracelet For Men & Women Germanium Stone Arthritis Chronic Pain Bio Therapy Carpal Tunnel Relief Negative Ion (3000 Gauss Each Magnet) + FREE LINK REMOVAL TOOL | Bid Proposal Form
Bid Proposal Form
Browse Our Catalog New Arrivals Best Deals Most Popular My Wish List Exit Catalog
Our Catalog Wellness & Relaxation Alternative Medicine Magnetic Field Therapy
BisLinks® Titanium Magnetic Health Bracelet For Men & Women Germanium Stone Arthritis Chronic Pain Bio Therapy Carpal Tunnel Relief Negative Ion (3000 Gauss Each Magnet) + FREE LINK REMOVAL TOOL
BisLinks® Titanium Magnetic Health Bracelet For Men & Women Germanium Stone Arthritis Chronic Pain Bio Therapy Carpal Tunnel Relief Negative Ion (3000 Gauss Each Magnet) + FREE LINK REMOVAL TOOL by BisLinks® at Bid Proposal Form. MPN: BRAC0006#FBA. Hurry! Limited time offer. Offer valid only while supplies last. What's magnetic field therapy? Magnetic field therapy uses magnets to maintain health and treat illness. The human body and the earth naturally
Brand: BisLinks®
4.6 out of 5 stars with 13 reviews
Condition: New
Availability: In Stock
$23.89
Quantity:
Add to Cart
View More In Magnetic Field Therapy.
Or Browse Our Catalog.
Product Description & Reviews
What's magnetic field therapy?
Magnetic field therapy uses magnets to maintain health and treat illness.
The human body and the earth naturally produce electric and magnetic fields. Electromagnetic fields also can be technologically produced, such as radio and television waves. They believe to maintain good health electromagnetic field must be balanced.
Improves Blood Circulation
The benefits of magnetic bracelets all start with improving your circulation. The magnets in the bracelet can draw more blood to the arm and wrist because of the iron in your blood.
Reduces Inflammation
Since magnetic bracelets can improve circulation, the inflamed area has more blood flowing to it, which helps it heal more quickly.
Relieves Pain
Magnetic bracelets can reduce lactic acid and calcium deposits, both of which can cause pain in the joints and other parts of the body.
Negative Ions
Negative ions are odourless, tasteless and invisible molecules. They are created when water molecules breaks apart when exposed to sunlight, water, moving air. This causes the molecules to gain or lose an electrical charge, creating negative ions.
FAR INFRARED (FIR)
Far Infrared (FIR) radiation is electromagnetic radiation of a wavelength longer than that of visible light, but shorter than that of radio waves. Germanium is a semi-metal which comes out of the earth. It is a by-product of many common mineral's production, and is produced initially in a powder form.
Not Suitable For:
* Pregnant women.
* Anyone using a pacemaker or any other electrical medical devices.
* Anyone using an insulin pump.
* Using on open wounds.
* Children
* Suffer from epilepsy
* If you have experienced any issues from wearing jewellery items containing plastics, leather, precious and other metals we advise you to only wear products manufactured from surgical grade stainless steel.
Features & Highlights
FEATURE: This bracelet has 4 kinds of elements, Negative Ion, Far Infrared Red, Germanium and Magnets which help relieve pain, muscle tension, improve blood circulation and help you sleep.
MAGNETS & Size: Contains 5 high-powered magnets, each offering 3000 gauss in strength. Bracelet Size approx. 22cm total length, 15mm width, 66g weight and can be adjusted to fit with Free LINK REMOVAL TOOL as per your requirement.
Gift box colour may vary depending on availability. Unisex, suitable for men and women.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED: BisLinks® products are manufactured to the highest professional standards of quality and are supported by our excellent customer service.
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: We are so confident in our products that if you do not like it just send it back to us for money back or a free replacement, whichever you prefer within 30 days.
Additional Information
Manufacturer: BisLinks®
Brand: BisLinks®
Part Number: BRAC0006#FBA
Publisher: BisLinks®
Studio: BisLinks®
MPN: BRAC0006#FBA
EAN: 5056113814077
Package Weight: 0.26 pounds
Package Size: 3.86 x 1.1 x 1.1 inches
Have questions about this item, or would like to inquire about a custom or bulk order?
If you have any questions about this product by BisLinks®, contact us by completing and submitting the form below. If you are looking for a specif part number, please include it with your message.
First Name:
Last Last:
Email Address:
Your Message:
Send Message
Related Best Sellers
Quantum Resonance Magnetic Analyzer Newest 4TH Generation Software Free Upgrade Download English & Spanish
By Enjoymart
mpn: MFTP-4TH, ean: 0616010995153,
How Many Reports We Will Get From This Quantum Health Analyzer The quantum health body analyzers have 47 reports,It's enough for the professional and daily use.Operation Ways on Quantum Magnetic Resonance Analyzer 1.Install software in PC with the U...
USWEL Pain Relief Bracelet for Women Magnetic Therapy Wrist Bracelet: Powers Arthritis and Carpal Tunnel with Free Removal Tool Black
By USWEL
ean: 0705346079924,
USWEL pain relief bracelet has been used to help alleviate pain, reduce inflammation, and improve blood circulation.USWEL magnetic therapy bracelet is also used to reduce stress and anxiety, improve sleep, and enhance overall balance and mood. Every ...
Chinese Biomagnetic Cup Professional Cupping Therapy Massage Medical Set (24)
By PPR
ean: 0701722172043,
GYY 24 Cup set is a high quality cupping set. The cups are durable, light weight, and easy to use. It's ISO9001 quality certified. View your treatment area through the transparent cups and adjust pressure with the pump. The cups rounded edges ar...
Magnetic Therapy Stainless Steel Magnetic Bracelet ~ Celebrities and Golfers Power Bracelet ~ Size: 7 3/4 Inch. Long, 1/4 Inch. Wide
By CTC
ean: 0639805016284,
Finely Crafted Solid Stainless Steel with Designer Styling. Nickel Free with Powerful Magnets on Every Link. Helps Relieve Arthritis, Knee, Back, Elbow, Foot, Wrist Pain. Easy to Size Bracelet... Simply take to any jewelry or watch repair. Consult a ...
Sign Up For Our Newsletter
Sign up to be the first to know about our Exclusive Sales, Special Offers, & Member's Only Discounts!
Privacy Policy / Terms of Service
© 2019 - bidproposalform.com. All Rights Reserved.