Vaccines possibly linked to autism reached U.S. court | Childhood Disorders discussions | Emotional & Mental Health center | SteadyHealth.com
Menu
Register
Login
EN
ENGLISH
DEUTSCH
ESPAÑOL
Couldn't find what you looking for?
TRY OUR SEARCH!
Home
...
Discussions
Emotional & Mental Health
Mental Disorders
Childhood Disorders
Vaccines possibly linked to autism reached U.S. court
By Jenny3481
Christopher Pavlinec, MD answered this Use of clonidine in children with autism spectrum disorders
Read more
New Reply Follow New Topic
Jenny3481 over a year ago
On Monday began a hearing in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington to determine whether vaccinations could have caused autism in many children.
Over 4,800 families filed complaints against the government stating that routine childhood vaccines are linked to a rise in autism disorders. A preservative called thimerosal used in vaccines is being blamed for the impaired social interaction so typical of autism.
Although scientists contend strongly that there is no link between autism and vaccines containing thimerosal, a very load group of people remains unconvinced.
Parents whose children developed autistic symptoms reported that their children had no symptoms until after they received the vaccines, required by many states for admission to school. They are seeking payment under the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program. This program has a 2.5 billion U.S. dollars fund built up from a 75-cent-per-dose tax on vaccines.
This is the first time ever that evidence of autistic harm from childhood vaccines is examined and cross-examined in a court of law. There will be no judges but three "special masters" instead who will hear the cases. They are Denise Vowell, a former U.S. Army chief trial judge; Patricia Campbell-Smith, a former environmental lawyer and clerk at the Federal Claims Court; and George Hastings a former tax claims expert at the Department of Justice.
Loading...
Quick reply
If you want to get notified by every reply to your post, please register. It is FREE!
No, thanks
Register
Editor's Picks
How to File a Complaint with the FDA, and an Update on the CerviCore Suits
Infocenter articles
Autism symptoms checklist
Child autism symptoms
Misdiagnosed with autism
Signs of autism in infants and toddlers
Autism treatments overview
Use of clonidine in children with autism spectrum disorders
Ten Things Every Child With Autism Wants You To Know
Father's Age Seen As Crucial To Baby's Disease Risk Of Autism And Schizophrenia
Vaccine And Immunization: Pros & Cons
Autism Facts: Symptoms, Causes And Treatment
Scientists Struggle to Explain Surge in Whooping Cough
Related Topics
More Claims of Vaccine-Autism Link in The Court
over a year ago
Study Finds No Link Between MMR Vaccine and Autism
over a year ago
Could vaccine cause autism in children?
over a year ago
Measles outbreaks may be linked to vaccine fears of Autism
over a year ago
Do autistic kids lie?
over a year ago
Could autism be prevented?
over a year ago
How can you tell a difference?
over a year ago
Are there some special genes involved in autism?
over a year ago
What is Autism
over a year ago
Autism and Asperger's related?
over a year ago
Related Articles
US Researchers Have Discovered First Whooping Cough Strain Resistant To Vaccine
Obesity And Marketing: Could Commercials Be Making Us Fat?
Flu Season Survival Guide: 10 Easy Steps to Avoid Cold and Flu
Autism - Should You Try a Casein and Gluten Free Diet for Your Child?
Artificial Sweeteners Guilty For Child Diabetes?
OK