Morphine Detox & Addiction Facts
1-888-825-1020
info@rapiddrugdetox.com
Facebook
Google+
Twitter
YouTube
Rapid Drug Detox
Menu
Home
About
What is Rapid Drug Detox?
Aftercare and Rehabiliation
Anesthesia FAQ
Hotel and Lodging
Why Us?
Compare RDD Method™
Safe, Confidential & Affordable
Patient Confidentiality
Safety Protocol
Testimonials
Real People with Real Stories
Video Testimonials
Close
Addiction Treatment
Actiq Detox
Alfenta Detox
Buprenex Detox
Buprenorphine Detox
Butorphanol Detox
Codeine Detox
Darvon (Propoxyphene) Detox
Demerol (Meperidine / Meprodine) Detox
Dihydrocodeine Detox
Dolophine Detox
Embeda Detox
Fentanyl / Duragesic Detox & Addiction Facts
Fiorinal Detox
Heroin Detox & Addiction Facts
Hydrocodone / Vicodin Detox & Addiction Facts
Hydromorphone / Dilaudid Detox
Kadian Detox
LAAM Detox
Levorphanol Detox
Methadone Detox & Addiction Facts
MS Contin Detox
Morphine Detox & Addiction Facts
Narcotics
Nubain Detox
Nucynta Detox
Opiate Detox & Addiction Facts
Opium Detox
Oxycodone Detox & Addiction Facts
OxyContin Detox & Addiction Facts
Oxymorphone Detox
Percocet Detox & Addiction Facts
Suboxone® Detox & Addiction Facts
Subutex Detox
Roxanol Detox
Thebaine Detox
Tilidine Detox
Tramadol / Ultram Detox & Addiction Facts
Vicodin Detox
Close
Treatment Programs
Rapid Anesthesia Detox – RDD Method™
Naltrexone Therapy
Close
Our Facility
Testimonials
FAQ
Blog
Contact
Our Location
Close
Close
Morphine Detox & Addiction Facts
Rapid Drug Detox can help detox you from Morphine. Morphine is also known by several different brand names (see below).
Morphine Addiction
Morphine / MS Contin / Morphine Sulfate are highly-potent opiate analgesic drug and the principal active agent in opium and the prototypical opioid. Morphine acts directly on the central nervous system to relieve pain. Studies done on the efficacy of various opioids have indicated that in the management of severe pain, no other narcotic analgesic is more effective or superior to morphine. It is marketed under several different names including: Oramorph, Oramorph SR, and Avinza. Morphine is highly addictive when compared to other substances; physical and psychological dependences develop very rapidly.
Morphine is the prototype narcotic drug and is the gold standard against which all other opioids are tested. In clinical settings, morphine exerts its principal pharmacological effect on the central nervous system and gastrointestinal tract. Its primary actions of therapeutic value are analgesia and sedation. Morphine is a rapid-acting narcotic and known to bind very strongly to the receptors, for this reason it often has a higher incidence of euphoria/dysphoria, respiratory depression, sedation, pruritus, tolerance, and physical and psychological dependence when compared to other opioids.
Morphine was the most commonly abused narcotic analgesic in the world up until heroin was synthesized and became readily available. Even today, morphine is the most sought after prescription narcotic by heroin addicts when heroin is scarce. Morphine and heroin are also much more likely to produce feelings of euphoria and other such subjective effects when compared to most other opioid analgesics.
Call us at 1-888-825-1020 or contact us to learn more about how we can help you overcome Morphine addiction.
Morphine Addiction Effects
The most commonly reported adverse drug reactions are nausea, vomiting and sweating. Drowsiness is reported, although it is less of an issue than for other opioids. Respiratory depression, a common side effect of most opioids, is not clinically significant in normal doses. By itself, it can decrease the seizure threshold. Dosages of coumadin/warfarin may need to be reduced for anticoagulated patients to avoid bleeding complications.
Morphine Withdrawal Symptoms
The withdrawal symptoms associated with morphine addiction are usually experienced shortly before the time of the next scheduled dose, sometimes within as early as a few hours (usually between 6-12 hours) after the last administration. Early symptoms include: watery eyes, insomnia, diarrhea, runny nose, yawning, dysphoria, sweating, and in some cases a strong drug craving. Restlessness, irritability, loss of appetite, body aches, severe abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, tremors, and even stronger and more intense drug cravings appear as the syndrome progresses. Severe depression and vomiting are very common. The heart rate and blood pressure are elevated and can lead to a heart attack, blot clot or stroke. Chills or cold flashes with goose bumps (“cold turkey”) alternating with flushing (hot flashes), kicking movements of the legs (“kicking the habit” – similar to restless leg syndrome) and excessive sweating are also characteristic symptoms. Severe pain in the bones and muscles of the back and extremities occur as do muscle spasms. At any point during this process, a suitable narcotic can be administered that dramatically reverses the withdrawal symptoms. Major withdrawal symptoms peak between 48 to 96 hours after the last dose and subside after approximately 10 to 12 days. Sudden withdrawal by heavily dependent users who are in poor health may be fatal.
Rapid Anesthesia Morphine Detox
The RDD Method™ for Morphine detoxification under anesthesia is a medical procedure that eliminates most of the withdrawal symptoms. During the procedure the patient is given medication to relax and then put under light, general anesthesia for approximately 60 minutes. Following the procedure, recovery begins under direct medical supervision.
The patient’s vital signs and overall physical and mental reactions to these medications are closely monitored during the detox procedure. In the days that follow, the patient often sleeps more than usual. Administered by medical professionals as part of a long-term drug-addiction recovery strategy, The RDD Method™ is significantly more effective than other courses of Morphine addiction treatment.
Morphine Addiction FAQs
How do I know if I am addicted to Morphine?
A.Short-term users may require a detox program in order to successfully discontinue use because of Morphine’s very addictive traits. Addicts typically require higher doses of the drug and experience cravings for Morphine between doses.
How long does Morphine detox take?
A.The detox process for Morphine varies in length depending on the pattern of typical use and on individual differences. The most severe withdrawal symptoms occur during the first several days after discontinuing use of the drug making it important to seek immediate professional help from trained Morphine-detox professionals.
Is Morphine-addiction recovery painful?
A.While recovery from Morphine addiction can be painful; the right procedure greatly reduces discomfort. Anesthesia Morphine detox is a procedure that is effective at reducing the pain normally associated with Morphine detox.
How do I choose a Morphine-detox program?
A.Talking to a trained detox or medical professional is the right first step in choosing the appropriate program. Call us at 1-888-825-1020 or contact us to learn more.
If you are using opiate drugs to control pain and feel you are using more and more to obtain the same pain relief, you may be suffering from a common condition caused from opiate drug use; read about this condition called Hyperalgesia. Also, read about hormones and how the chronic use of opiate drugs can decrease the body’s ability to produce the proper amount of testosterone and estrogen.
We never use other replacement addicting opiates often prescribed by physicians and detox centers, such as Suboxone®/Subutex (Buprenorphine) or injectable Buprenorphine. These schedule III controlled opiate drugs are routinely and widely used and approved by the FDA for opiate addiction maintenance, like Methadone. Many patients find themselves in the same situation as they were before drug treatment from a doctor or a drug rehabilitation center. We have heard of some in-patient rehab centers also using schedule II controlled liquid Hydrocodone and Dilaudid “cocktails”. Patients soon realize these replacement drugs cause severe withdrawal once they are discharged from these programs. This causes the patient to seek opiates for relief from the severe discomfort of a Buprenorphine withdrawal. The use of these drugs for treatment of opiate addiction is merely switching one opiate drug for another setting the patient up for failure. This does not solve the patient’s drug addiction problem. As use of these drugs become more common, we are seeing a steady increase of requests for an anesthesia detox from patients addicted to Suboxone®/Subutex (Buprenorphine). With RDD’s Naltrexone Therapy used as a pellet/implant, injectable “IM” shot or the oral pill form, the patient stays clean and cravings are eliminated.
Free Yourself From Drug Addiction
Contact Rapid Drug Detox by filling out our form or by calling us at 1-888-825-1020. Our nurses are on call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The RDD Center knowledgeable, licensed medical professionals are available to answer all of your questions.
RDD Method
Rapid Detoxification Programs
RDD Method™ Is Right for You
Drug Addiction Treatments
Heroin Detox
Oxycodone Detox
Hydrocodone Detox
Suboxone Detox
Subutex Detox
Methadone Detox
Fentanyl Detox
Tramadol/Ultram Detox
Percocet Detox
Dilaudid Detox
Hydromorphone Detox
Oxycontin Detox
Roxycodone Detox
Morphine Detox
Norco Detox
MS Contin Detox
Vicodin Detox
Oxymorphone Detox
Lortab Detox
Opana Detox
Nucynta Detox
view all...
Contact Information
Life Science RDD Services LLC
Rapid Drug Detox Center
Phone 24/7: 1-888-825-1020
Email: info@rapiddrugdetox.com
You can report suspected pill mills to the DEA at 888-954-4662
Opiate Drug Detox
3 day all-inclusive anesthesia detox.
We are proud to offer our all-inclusive drug detoxification procedure at affordable rates. More.
About Rapid Drug Detox
View the facility »
Read our patient testimonials »
Print Brochure, FAQ’s
Aftercare and Therapy
100% Confidential
Your confidentiality is our priority as you overcome your drug addiction. Learn More.
Copyright © 2019 Rapid Drug Detox • • Disclaimer • Sitemap