Fish Oil vs. Statins: What Keeps Cholesterol Down?
Newsletter
Fish Oil vs. Statins: What Keeps Cholesterol Down?
Medically reviewed by Dena Westphalen, PharmD on March 27, 2019 Recently Updated — Written by Anna Schaefer
Fish oil basics
How statins work
Research on fish oil
Research on statins
Takeaway
Q&A: Other cholesterol drugs
Overview
High cholesterol may not always cause symptoms, but it requires treatment all the same. When it comes to controlling your cholesterol, statins are king.
Can fish oil work just as well to reduce your cholesterol? Read on to learn how it stacks up.
Fish oil basics
Fish oil contains omega-3 fatty acids, which are credited with a range of health benefits. Among other things, omega-3 fatty acids have been said to:
fight inflammation
reduce blood pressure
improve bone health
promote healthy skin
Though it’s found naturally in fish, fish oil is most often taken in supplement form.
In 2012, used products containing fish oil or omega-3 fatty acids.
How statins work
Statins stop the body from making cholesterol. They also help it to reabsorb plaque that’s built up on the artery walls.
One longitudinal study found that 27.8 percent of Americans over 40 years old were using statins as of 2013.
What the research says about fish oil
Studies on fish oil have been mixed. Fish oil supplements have been tied to a long list of benefits, including:
decreased risk of heart disease and stroke
lower levels of triglycerides, or fats in the blood
increased brain health
better diabetes management
Some studies, such as those noted in a , have found a decreased risk of heart disease in people taking fish oil supplements. Other studies, such as one 2013 clinical trial of 12,000 people with cardiovascular risk factors, have found no such evidence.
In addition, although fish oil does decrease triglycerides, there isn’t sufficient evidence that it lowers heart attack risk.
When it comes to lowering low-density lipoprotein (LDL), also known as “bad” cholesterol, the evidence simply isn’t there. In fact, fish oil can actually increase LDL levels for some people according to a 2013 literature review.
What the research says about statins
According to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), statins show an indisputable ability to prevent heart disease but should be taken with care.
Statins have benefits in addition to reducing your cholesterol. For example, they have anti-inflammatory properties that could work to stabilize blood vessels, and they can help prevent heart attacks, according to the Mayo Clinic.
It’s because of their potential side effects, such as muscle pain, that they’re generally only prescribed to people with high cholesterol and a risk of cardiovascular disease. They’re not considered preventive medicine.
The verdict
If you have high cholesterol, taking statins is an effective way to manage your risk. Taking fish oil may have its own benefits, but lowering your LDL cholesterol isn't one of them.
Speak with your doctor about your options and the benefits and risks of statin therapy.
Many people take supplements as a preventive measure. However, the best way to help prevent high cholesterol is by making healthy lifestyle choices, including:
quitting smoking
eating a healthy diet low in saturated and trans fats
managing your weight
Q&A: Other cholesterol drugs
Q:
What other drugs may help lower my cholesterol?
A:
Besides statins, other drugs that are used to lower cholesterol include:
niacin
drugs that work in your intestines
fibrates
PCSK9 inhibitors
Niacin is a B vitamin that’s found in food and available in a prescription form at higher doses. Niacin lowers LDL (bad) cholesterol and raises HDL (good) cholesterol. Drugs that work in your intestine are also used to treat high cholesterol by blocking the cholesterol absorption in your small intestine. They include cholestyramine, colesevelam, colestipol, and ezetimibe. Fibrates prevent your body from making triglycerides, or fats, and raise your HDL cholesterol. Fibrates include fenofibrate and gemfibrozil.
The newest FDA-approved cholesterol medications are the PCSK9 inhibitors, which include alirocumab and evolocumab. They primarily treat patients with a genetic condition causing hypercholesterolemia.
Bempedoic acid is a new class of medication that is currently being developed. Preliminary studies show promise in its ability to treat high cholesterol.
Dena Westphalen, PharmD Answers represent the opinions of our medical experts. All content is strictly informational and should not be considered medical advice.
Medically reviewed by Dena Westphalen, PharmD on March 27, 2019 Recently Updated — Written by Anna Schaefer
related stories
Statins: Uses, Side Effects, and More
Alternatives to Statins for Lowering Cholesterol
Krill Oil vs. Fish Oil: What’s the Difference?
Is There Cholesterol in Fish?
Coconut Oil and Cholesterol
READ THIS NEXT
Statins: Uses, Side Effects, and More
Medically reviewed by Aleah Rodriguez, PharmD
Statins are drugs that can help decrease your levels of LDL cholesterol. Read about the pros and cons of using statins.
READ MORE
Alternatives to Statins for Lowering Cholesterol
Medically reviewed by Gerhard Whitworth, RN
Statins are prescription drugs used to lower cholesterol. However, they can have side effects and might not be right for everyone. Learn about…
READ MORE
Krill Oil vs. Fish Oil: What’s the Difference?
Medically reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
Fish oil and krill oil both contain two types of omega-3s, but they aren't created equally. Find out which oil you should be adding to your diet.
READ MORE
Is There Cholesterol in Fish?
Medically reviewed by Natalie Butler, RD, LD
If you have high cholesterol, is fish a healthy dietary option? Find out if fish contains cholesterol and how to incorporate it into a heart-healthy…
READ MORE
Coconut Oil and Cholesterol
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Coconut oil has been in the headlines in recent years for various health reasons. In particular, experts go back and forth debating about whether or…
READ MORE
Statins and Memory Loss: Is There a Link?
Medically reviewed by Dena Westphalen, PharmD
Statins are one of the most commonly prescribed drugs for high cholesterol in the United States. Statins are known to be highly effective in…
READ MORE
What’s the Difference Between Cod Liver Oil and Fish Oil?
Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo, LDN, RD
Omega-3 fatty acids support many body systems and may prevent a number of ailments. Cod liver oil and fish oil are both good sources of omega-3 fatty…
READ MORE
Why You Shouldn’t Mix Grapefruit and Statins
Medically reviewed by Alan Carter, PharmD
Grapefruit can affect how fast some drugs - like statins - are absorbed into the bloodstream. These include many drugs used to treat blood vessel and…
READ MORE
Kidney Failure: Should I Be Taking Statins?
Medically reviewed by Elaine K. Luo, MD
When your kidneys aren't working, they can't remove waste and extra fluid from your blood. This puts you at risk for other complications. Heart…
READ MORE
Can Statins Make You Tired?
Medically reviewed by Alyson Lozicki, PharmD
Statins may lower your cholesterol, but they can also make you tired, especially after exercise. Here's what the research says.
READ MORE
CMS Id: 84122 Client Version: 478d73e1dd9c5e778a40d69f42568223020523ba Build Number: 26877