Can medical imaging hurt a fetus?
Toggle navigation
Test/Treatment
Children
Children's (Pediatric) Imaging
RadInfo 4 Kids
Screening/Wellness
Disease/Condition
Safety
En Español
More Info
About Us
News
Physician Resources
Professions
Site Index A-Z
Can the exams hurt the baby of a pregnant woman?
Medical imaging exams are generally safe during pregnancy. If you are pregnant, it is acceptable to have an imaging exam when your doctor considers it necessary to determine your future course of medical care. Bear in mind that your health is important to the health of your baby.
Ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) procedures use radiation that is very different from x-rays. Ultrasound is commonly used during pregnancy, with no known cases of harm to an unborn baby from such a procedure. Though not used as often as ultrasound, the same is true of MRI.
Radiography, fluoroscopy, computed tomography (CT) and nuclear medicine imaging exams all use x-rays to produce images. X-rays are an example of ionizing radiation. This type of radiation can be harmful when delivered in high quantities, but such quantities are seldom reached in medical examinations. Therefore, the potential risk is very small. Even so, it is important that your doctor knows you are pregnant when an x-ray, CT or nuclear imaging examination is being considered. Being aware of your pregnancy can help your doctor select the most appropriate imaging exam for your condition and keep your exposure to radiation as low as reasonably achievable to produce the necessary information.
If you had an x-ray or CT exam after conception, but before you discovered you were pregnant, you should not be overly concerned. In fact, for exams that do not include the pelvis, the radiation dose that the baby (fetus) receives is much lower than the quantity of radiation the baby will receive from radiation that exists naturally in the environment. Every pregnant woman is exposed to radiation in small quantities every day from their natural environment.
A carefully planned CT examination will not deliver radiation at levels that would put the growth and development of your baby at risk. The risks rise as multiple CT exams of the pelvis are performed. If you had a CT examination of your pelvis when you did not know you were pregnant, you should discuss this with your physician. Your physician might consider having a radiation dose and risk analysis performed. Such an analysis is highly likely to demonstrate that the medical radiation does not place your child in any serious danger. You should follow the advice of your obstetrician to assure a healthy gestation for your baby.
This page was reviewed on May 15, 2018
Send us your feedback
Did you find the information you were looking for?
Yes No
Please type your comment or suggestion into the text box below. Note: we are unable to answer specific questions or offer individual medical advice or opinions.
Comment:
E-mail:
Area code:
Phone no:
Thank you!
Do you have a personal story about radiology?
Share your patient story here
Sponsored by
Please note
RadiologyInfo.org is not a medical facility. Please contact your physician with specific medical questions or for a referral to a radiologist or other physician. To locate a medical imaging or radiation oncology provider in your community, you can search the ACR-accredited facilities database.
This website does not provide cost information. The costs for specific medical imaging tests, treatments and procedures may vary by geographic region. Discuss the fees associated with your prescribed procedure with your doctor, the medical facility staff and/or your insurance provider to get a better understanding of the possible charges you will incur.
Web page review process: This Web page is reviewed regularly by a physician with expertise in the medical area presented and is further reviewed by committees from the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) and the American College of Radiology (ACR), comprising physicians with expertise in several radiologic areas.
Outside links: For the convenience of our users, RadiologyInfo.org provides links to relevant websites. RadiologyInfo.org, RSNA and ACR are not responsible for the content contained on the web pages found at these links.
About Us | Contact Us | FAQ | Privacy | Terms of Use | Links | Site Map
Copyright © 2019 Radiological Society of North America, Inc. (RSNA).
To help ensure current and accurate information, we do not permit copying but encourage linking to this site.