Morphine Addiction Treatment: Where to Get Help for Drug Abuse?
Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888)-459-5511
Menu
Addiction Guides
Addiction Facts
What is Addiction?
Recognizing Addiction
Drug Abuse Statistics
Substance Abuse Triggers
Polydrug Use: Get the Facts
Drug Testing
Addiction Stories
Meth Addiction Stories
Heroin Addiction Stories
Gambling Addiction Stories
Marijuana Addiction Stories
Cocaine Addiction Stories
People at Risk
College Students abd Drug Abuse
Dual Diagnosis
Teenagers and Students
Veterans and Addictions
PTSD and Addiction
Self-Assessment
Substances
Alcohol Addiction
Effects of Alcoholism
Alcoholism Treatment
Alcoholism Recovery
Alcoholism Resources
Street Names of Addictive Substances
Understanding Drugs
Types of Drugs
Illicit Drugs
Marijuana
Crystal Meth
Spice
Cocaine
Crack
GHB
Amphetamine
Speed
Prescription Medication
Ambien
Ketamine
Vicodin
Gabapentin
Accutane
Provigil
Morphine
Zoloft
Prozac
Trazodone
Barbiturates
Fioricet
Stimulants
Nicotine
Adderall
Kratom
Ecstasy
Ritalin
Benzodiazepines
Valium
Restoril
Midazolam
Librium
Klonopin
Halcion
Ativan
Xanax
Hallucinogens
LSD
AL-LAD
Peyote
DMT
Ayhuasca
Shrooms
Opioids
Opiates
Heroin
Opium
Opana
Suboxone
Vicoprofen
Methadone
Fentanyl
Dilaudid
Demerol
Codeine
Tramadol
Oxycodone
Hydrocodone
Norco
Percocet
Sedative-Hypnotics
Lunesta
Sonata
Other Substances
Sleeping Pills
OTC Drugs
Diet Pills
Inhalants
Painkillers
Narcotics
Antidepressants
NPC
Anxiety Medication
Cyclobenzaprine
Lexapro
Baclofen
Vyvanse
Phenibut
Kava
Celexa
Treatment Guides
Treatment Stages
Addiction Treatment: the Overview
1 ► Intervention
2 ► Inpatient and Outpatient Therapy
3 ► Lifelong Commitment
Treatment for Substance Abuse: An Overview of Addiction Recovery Programs
Resources
Relapse Prevention Plan
Support Groups: An Overview
When a Loved One Has an Addiction
Drug Addiction Medications
Addiction and Rehab Hotlines
Find AA meetings
Find NA Meetings
Addiction Treatment Facility Locator
Rehab Guides
Facilities
Best Drug Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Outpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Drug Rehabs Near You
Outpatient Rehabs Near You
Types
Court Ordered Rehabs
Free and State Funded Rehabs
Rehabs for Veterans
Dual Diagnosis Rehabs
F.A.Q.
Rehab Question Answered
Can I Beat an Addiction On My Own?
How Long Does Rehab Take?
Medicaid and Medicare
Addiction Recovery Costs
Substances
LSD Rehab
Heroin Rehabs
Cocaine Rehab
Crystal Meth Rehab
GHB Rehab
Ecstasy Rehab
About Us
Our Community
Scholarship
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Addiction Treatment Events
How Morphine Addiction Treatment Can Offer a New Lease of Life
Free 24/7 rehab helpline > (888)-459-5511
Morphine is a powerful painkiller used as a last line of treatment when other painkillers fail. It is used to alleviate pain in the circumstances involving acute and chronic pain. Such circumstances include childbirth, post-operative pain, chronic debilitating pain like in cancer and other terminal diseases, among others. When taken, the drug acts upon the CNS to reduce the sensation of pain. While so effective, the drug is only considered a last line of treatment because of its addictive properties. Once a person gets hooked on the drug, they will require morphine addiction treatment. Fortunately, some facilities and programs offer morphine addiction help that can help turn a person’s life around.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.
Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
Table of contents:
How to Get Morphine Abuse Help?
Morphine Addiction Treatments
What are the Morphine Rehab Programs?
How to Get Morphine Abuse Help?
What is Morphine Addiction?
Morphine addiction is one of the hardest addictions to break due to its powerful effect on the brain. Analogous to heroin addiction, it can start with a dose as low as 1 mg per day. When taken continuously, the body soon develops a tolerance for the dose of Morphine, and the person may be tempted to bump it up. If the person does, a substance abuse habit will rapidly grow, leading to addiction.
How to Recognize the Problem
Signs and symptoms of a morphine abuse include:
Noticeable excitement or euphoria
Sedation/ sleepiness
Inability to focus and confusion
Constricted pupils
Shallow or depressed breathing
Doctor shopping
Dramatic mood swings
Social challenges like isolation
Sudden financial challenge
Noticeable withdrawal symptoms
Drug seeking behavior
Finding Morphine Addiction Help
Finding treatment for morphine addiction begins with recognizing and acknowledging the problem. If a person sees signs and symptoms pointing to morphine abuse in their life, this can provide the first step towards finding treatment for addiction to morphine. Recognition, in many cases, comes from a loved one as most addicts may not have the will and ability to take this step. However, taking this step is still possible for a person hooked on the drug, especially if they develop a desire to turn their life around and start living a drug-free life.
Morphine Addiction Treatment
What is Used to Help Morphine Addiction?
Treatment involves a combination of behavioral, psychological and medical approaches. Behaviorally, a person develops strong impulsive drug-seeking behavior that requires behavioral counseling. Psychologically, they form a powerful dependence that requires psychological reprogramming. Physically, painful and uncomfortable withdrawal symptoms need medication to help the person kick the habit successfully.
Where to Get Help for Morphine Addiction
When a person recognizes they or a loved one may have a morphine addiction, seeking immediate help is the best way to prevent anything worse from happening. To find help, a right place to start is to look for morphine addiction treatment online. As most treatment programs and facilities maintain an online presence, it is possible to find help this way.
Why Immediate Treatment is Necessary
With a morphine addiction, there is usually no time to spare in getting treatment as getting immediate help provides the best possibility for successful recovery. As the drug has powerful addictive properties, the problem tends to escalate quickly, in most cases morphing into multidrug abuse coupled with criminal and other risky behaviors. If a person suspects they or a loved one is addicted to morphine, they must not wait. They must move quickly to find help to prevent the situation from getting worse. Left untreated, the habit can easily lead to opioid overdose and death.
What are the Morphine Rehab Programs?
Morphine Addiction Rehab
Morphine addiction rehab provides a safe, immediate, systematic and sustained intervention to break the habit. By providing this in a clinical setting, the chances of successfully beating the habit go up. However, rehabilitation starts with taking a bold first step to initiate the treatment and set the ball rolling. While a person may think they are still in control, the following are reasons why getting into rehab immediately is a matter of life and death.
Why Rehab is the Only Way
Immediate Intervention
Morphine addictions are powerful, debilitating and destructive in nature. While this is true of most other habits, with morphine, the risk of a Morphine overdose and accidental death is high. Getting immediate help can help prevent such an escalation from happening. When a person enters rehab, access to drugs is immediately cut off. This provides the reassurance that the condition will not only not get worse, but that accidental overdose cannot happen. This makes immediate admission to rehab a possibly life-saving intervention.
Medical Support
While in rehab, lack of access to the drug will bring on painful and challenging withdrawal symptoms. Attempting to get off the drug alone can be dangerous and so doing so while under medical supervision is the safest way to do it. While in rehab, the person may be given some medication to alleviate the withdrawal symptoms. The person will also be monitored for any other life-threatening side effects of quitting the drug.
Sustained Multi-pronged Approach
Successfully beating the habit requires a combination of different strategies. These include behavioral, psychological and physical measures. While in rehab, these interventions will be organized and run by medical professionals with years of experience treating substance abuse. As a resident of such a facility, a person will have a higher chance of recovery than one trying to kick the habit by themselves. As most morphine addiction treatment programs last for a minimum of 90 days, rehabs provide a sustained intervention, which can permanently reform a person’s life.
Support Network
The rehab process seldom ends at the 90-day mark. Lots of work must still go into the recovery process, which can take years. By going into a rehab program, a person has access to a nationwide support network of medical professionals, ex-addicts, and other support network members. By getting plugged into this network immediately after completing rehab, a person can ensure gains achieved while in rehab are not lost. They can also find positive ways to adjust to life after drug abuse through post-rehab programs underpinned by these networks.
Starting Right Now
Illicit drug use is a dangerous and risky habit that can permanently damage a person’s life. This damage will impact physical, social, financial and mental areas of the person’s life. When this happens, the person may find they are out of a job, alienated from friends and family, evicted from their residence, and living on the streets. As the condition gets worse, the person may end up engaging in criminal activities get drugs. This can lead to arrests and conviction. This downward spiral can be stopped by saying no to drugs at the earliest chance possible. Saying no to drugs today by getting treatment is saying yes to a productive, healthy and fulfilling life starting tomorrow.
Morphine abuse and addiction can happen to anyone. Many people addicted to the drug started off as patients undergoing pain treatment with morphine. However, by taking a wrong turn at some point, this legitimate use turned into illicit use and escalated into a substance abuse habit. If this happens, it does not need to be a life sentence. Choosing to take that step today can mean the difference between a wasted life that may be suddenly cut short by an overdose and a long, fulfilling life full of hope and possibilities.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.
Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
If you recognize the telltale signs of morphine addiction in you or a loved one, do not waste any time. Get help immediately by calling (888)-459-5511 and speaking with a knowledgeable representative.
How Morphine Addiction Treatment Can Offer a New Lease of Life
Rate this article
Addiction Resource » Addictive Substances: The Anatomy of Drug Addiction » Morphine Addiction and Treatment » How Morphine Addiction Treatment Can Offer a New Lease of Life
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Free 24/7 Treatment Helpline
(888)-459-5511
Speak confidentially with a compassionate counsellor.
Feel hope
without commitment.
Morphine Addiction Resources
Morphine Addiction: Overview
Morphine Street Names
How Long Does Morphine Stay In Your System
Morphine High
Morphine Withdrawal
Morphine Substance Interaction
Morphine Side Effects
Morphine Addiction Signs
Morphine Overdose
Morphine Street Prices
Morphine Dosage
Morphine Addiction Treatment
Drug Rehab Resources
Best Rehabs
Local Rehabs Locator
Free Rehabs
Court-Ordered Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs
Outpatient Rehabs
Jewish Rehabs
Veterans Rehabs
Holistic Rehabs
LGBT Rehab Centers
Dual Diagnosis Rehab Centers
Alcohol Hotlines
Rehab Hotlines
Luxury Rehabilitation
Private Rehabs
Christian Rehabs
Women-Only Rehabs
Men-Only Rehabs
Rehabs for Couples
Family Rehabs
Teen Rehabs
State-Funded Rehabs
No-Insurance Rehabs
Executive Rehabs
Resort Rehabs
Drug Rehab Information
Speak to a representative concerning substance abuse treatment or request printed material on alcohol or drugs.
(888)-459-5511
The information available at AddictionResource.com is not a substitute for professional medical help.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here
© 2014 - 2019 Addiction Resource
Terms And Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
About Us
➤