Himalayan Salt, Salt Products | Khalid Maqbool & Sons
Email us at info@saltlampfactory.com
FAQ
What is Himalayan Salt?
Himalayan Salt is one of the most incredible health discoveries of our time. This pure, crystal-like salt comes from the original prime body of sea – The Primal Sea. Located deep within the Himalayan Mountains, at depths of a mile or more below the surface of the Earth, the salt was created when the primal sea – the place where scientists and scholars believe all life originated – was dried up by the energy of the sun, and then compressed over millions of years by the pressure of the land masses that formed on top of it.
So, what does that mean for health conscious consumers? This pure Himalayan Crystal Salt contains 84 different naturally occurring minerals and elements essential to optimal health, and provides amazing healing properties for both the human body and the environment that we inhabit.
Where does Himalayan Salt come from?
Himalayan Salt comes from deep within the Himalayan Mountains. The salt is chipped out by hand and brought to the surface. It is then crafted and shaped into the large variety of natural Himalayan Salt products that we have available for sale on this site!
Why choose edible Himalayan Salt over traditional Table Salt or Sea Salt?
The fact that Himalayan Salt contains 84 distinct, naturally occurring minerals and trace elements, makes edible Himalayan salt nutritionally superior to standard table salt, sea salt, or any of the chemically processed salts you would typically find at your local supermarket. I began using Himalayan salt several years ago when I was first introduced to it. Now it’s all I use, whether I’m cooking meals or seasoning raw foods. The taste is better than any other salt I’ve tried, and the fact that it is all natural and free of any chemical additives makes it much healthier for everyday consumption.
What other applications are there for Himalayan Salt products?
Himalayan Salt has a number of applications for health and wellness. In addition to the edible Himalayan Salt, we also carry Himalayan Salt Lamps; Himalayan Salt Spa and Bath products for detoxifying, mineralizing, and cleansing the skin and body; Himalayan Salt Cookware; and several allergy relief products designed to ease the symptoms associated with seasonal allergies and sinus/respiratory issues.
What is a Himalayan Salt Lamp?
A Salt Lamp is a fantastic addition to any home, office, or place of business. The air is filled with negative and positive ions. In order to maintain a healthy living atmosphere, these negative and positive ions must remain in balance. However, the electronic devices (televisions, DVD players, computers, cell phones, etc.) and heating/cooling systems in our homes and offices produce an abundance of positive ions which throw our air out of balance. That, in turn, results in stress, insomnia and other sleep disorders, sinus and migraine headaches, allergies, asthma, and a host of other health ailments!
Himalayan Salt, besides being incredibly mineral-rich, is also a natural ionizer and air purifier. With a Salt Lamp, you can help counter the undesirable health effects of the electronic devices that permeate every aspect of our daily lives, reducing the stress on your body and purifying the air you breathe.
Himalayan Salt Lamps – besides being aesthetically beautiful and giving off a warm, inviting glow – produce negative ions naturally. Negative ions are known to help alleviate symptoms caused by allergies, sleep disorders, headaches, and depression, among other things. Negative ions help alleviate common indoor pollutants such as dust, mildew, humidity, and electromagnetic fields from electronic devices. These Salt Lamps come in a variety of sizes to accommodate any size room you wish to ionize – however small or large!
What are Negative Ions?
Negative ions are colorless and tasteless molecules that are abundant in nature. Mountains, beaches, and waterfalls all contain these negative ions. When negative ions enter the human body, a sense of calm and well-being results.
It is recommended that you leave your Himalayan Salt Lamp lit as much as possible to achieve optimal ionization and the absolute best air purifying results. Additionally, the heat provided by the light bulb inside your Salt Lamp will drastically reduce the amount of moisture build-up around the lamp. The more you leave your Himalayan Salt Lamp plugged in and turned on, the more beneficial it will be for your surrounding environment.
Where do I put my Himalayan Salt Lamp?
Himalayan Salt Lamps make wonderful additions to bedrooms, bathrooms, home offices, kitchens, and dining tables. Pretty much any room in your home where you spend time is a good place for a Himalayan Salt Lamp.
Outside of the home, Himalayan Salt Lamps are an excellent addition to offices, gyms, spas and salons, massage parlors, yoga and fitness studios, retail stores, and anywhere else you wish to achieve a relaxing and inviting environment filled with positive energy and clean air!
We recommend placing larger Himalayan Salt Lamps in bigger rooms. A larger Himalayan Salt Lamp emits more negative ions than smaller ones due to the greater amount of lamp surface area. If you have a large room that you wish to ionize, this can be accomplished either by using one or two large Himalayan Salt Lamps or, alternatively, by utilizing several smaller lamps placed strategically around the room. It all depends on the desired visual effect you wish to achieve.
What are the health benefits of a Himalayan Salt Lamp?
When the Himalayan Salt Crystal that the lamp is made of heats up, it emits negative ions. Negative ions cleanse the air by removing dust, pollen, and bacteria. They also offset the effects of positive ions produced by electronics such as computers and televisions. Negative ions are also produced naturally by thunderstorms, waterfalls and the ocean. This is the main reason why people feel refreshed and energized in those environments. Himalayan Salt Lamps offer the same benefit, and can be utilized in your home, office, or anywhere else you spend time.
What is included with my Himalayan Salt Lamp?
All of our natural, high quality Himalayan Salt Lamps come fully equipped with a standard UL certified cord, a 15 watt candelabra base light bulb, and a finely stained and polished rosewood base. Every Himalayan Salt product is individually boxed, making it perfect for gift giving!
How do I clean my Himalayan Salt Lamp?
Turn the Salt Lamp off and allow it time to cool. Locate a slightly damp cloth (not soaking wet!), sponge, or towel, and wipe the surface clean of any moisture or dust particles that may have accumulated. Then turn your Himalayan Salt Lamp back on and enjoy the beautiful glow and air ionizing benefits!
What makes Himalayan Salt Lamps so unique?
No two Himalayan Salt Lamps or natural Himalayan Salt products will ever be the same. They naturally contain veins, cracks and striations that make each item individually unique. The colors range from almost pure white, to light orange, to at times a deep dark orange that is almost red. Weight and size will vary within product styles, and we only give approximations and averages. Due to these variances, we can not guarantee exact shape, size, or color. However, we do guarantee that our entire Himalayan Salt Lamp and Himalayan Salt product collection is one of a kind!
Will my Himalayan Salt Lamp degrade over time?
As long as you do not submerge your Himalayan Salt Lamps in water, or expose them to excessive moisture, they will last forever. If the humidity is high, the salt lamp may sweat a little. However, if the salt lamp is left on, the heat of the light bulb will prevent sweating even during most humid days. With the candle holders, we recommend placing a plastic coaster underneath the salt crystal if the surface where it is sitting is sensitive. Himalayan Salt Lamps come with a wooden base attached to the bottom of the salt crystal and can be placed on any surface you like.
How do I replace the bulb on my Himalayan Salt Lamp?
Before changing the bulb, make sure the Himalayan Salt Lamp has had time to cool off, and then unplug it. Carefully turn the lamp sideways, squeeze the metal prongs, and pull the bulb holder straight out. Remove the old bulb and replace it with a new one. We recommend 15 to 25 watt candelabra based bulbs. The average 7 watt candelabra base light bulbs found in many stores will work fine, but we usually recommend using a higher wattage bulb for better air purification. For the larger Himalayan Salt Lamps, you can usually find 20-25 watt candelabra bulbs at a lighting store.
Replacement bulbs for your Himalayan Salt Lamps can be purchased directly from us. They can also be found in some large-scale retail outlets like Home Depot, Lowes or WalMart, as well as at your local neighborhood hardware store. Dollar Stores carry replacement bulbs, and often have various colored bulbs in stock which look great with our Himalayan Salt Lamps as well. Feel free to experiment to find whatever unique colors you like best!
How long should I leave my Himalayan Salt Lamp on?
The more you leave your Himalayan Salt Lamp on, the greater air ionizing and purifying effect it will have. Once the Salt Lamp warms up, it provides maximum ionizing benefit. Himalayan Salt Lamps utilize a low wattage bulb and do not draw a great deal of electricity. The are generally safe to leave on at all times. If you plan on being away for an extended period of time, such as on vacation, then you may want to unplug it until you return.
Do Himalayan Salt Lamps pose any potential hazard?
In general, Himalayan Salt Lamps are very safe. Even when warmed up, they do not get excessively hot, particularly if a low wattage light bulb is used. But, as with any electrical device, one should always exercise caution! Himalayan Salt Lamps should not be plugged in close to a bathtub or sink. If you need to wipe the lamp off with a damp cloth to remove excess dust that may have gathered, it’s always a good idea to unplug the lamp first.
Are there any other care instructions for my Himalayan Salt Lamp that I need to be concerned about?
Himalayan Salt is hygroscopic, meaning it naturally absorbs moisture particles from the surrounding environment. The resulting effect is that the lamp’s surface area will begin to sweat as it works to repel excess moisture. Therefore, Himalayan Salt should never be exposed to rain, dipped in water, or placed in moisture prone environments, such as basements with poor ventilation and abundant humidity (except for our spa products of course).
If your Salt Lamp begins to sweat, do not be alarmed. The Salt Lamp is performing its natural duty. Profuse sweating indicates that the surrounding environment is too moist for the Himalayan salt lamp to function properly. If this is the case, we strongly urge you to find a more suitable climate for your Himalayan Salt Lamp to ensure that it lasts you a long time and continues to work to cleanse and detoxify your environment!
What is the difference between a Himalayan Salt Lamp and a Himalayan Salt Candle Holder?
Both our Himalayan Salt Lamps and our Himalayan Salt Candle Holders are made of 100% genuine Himalayan Salt. The biggest difference is that the Salt Lamps are illuminated from within by a 15 watt candelabra based light bulb, and the candle holders are illuminated by a tea light or candle of your choice.
Himalayan Salt Lamps are superior for air ionization, as they are much larger and have more surface area. They are also illuminated for longer periods of time due to the fact that they are powered by a light bulb. Those who leave their Himalayan Salt Lamps turned on the most will receive the greatest air ionizing benefits!
What type of candle should I use in my Himalayan Salt Candle Holder?
Any candle that fits within your Himalayan Salt Candle Holder will look great! We usually recommend the shallow tea light candles because they sit lower inside the candle holder. This produces a rich, deep glow, while at the same time heating the candle holder more thoroughly for optimal air ionization.
How do I use the Himalayan Bath Salts and Body Scrubs?
A little Himalayan Bath Salt goes a long way. Simply fill your tub with warm water, throw in a handful of salt (approximately 1/4 of a 1 Lb. Jar), and soak for at least 30 minutes, allowing the minerals to cleanse the skin and detoxify the body.
If you are taking a shower, lather up as you normally would. Then, take your Himalayan Salt bar or scrub, rub it on a wash cloth, and apply it to your skin. Alternately, you can run the salt bar under the water at rub it on your hands. The salt bars and scrubs do not lather, but will nourish and rejuvenate the skin with 84 minerals and trace elements. Be sure to keep the Himalayan Salt bars and scrubs away from puddles of water to avoid unwanted melting. Be cautious not to rub the salt bar directly on the face, as the salt bars can often be slightly abrasive. Rub the Himalayan Salt in your hands and then apply to the face for the same effect.
Who would benefit from using a Himalayan Salt Inhaler?
The Himalayan Salt Inhaler is a product that is of particular benefit to anyone that suffers from allergies or asthma. Oral inhalation of the tiny, mineral-rich molecules of Himalayan Salt helps decrease swelling and irritation in the throat. This product was featured on Dr. Oz’s television program as one of his favorite natural remedies!
If you own a retail business and are interested in wholesale purchasing of any of the Himalayan Salt products featured on KHALIDMAQBOOL.COM, contact us directly via email dan.maqbool@gmail.com to receive a copy of our latest Wholesale Price List. As direct Manufacturer & Exporter of Himalayan Salt products, we are able to offer extremely competitive wholesale pricing. The larger your order is, the more you save!
If you have any questions not covered here, please email us Dan.maqbool@gmail.com , and we’ll be sure to answer them and add them to the page!
Salt Lamp
Return To Top
Copyright © 2019 Khalid Maqbool & Sons
1/20 Linkers Colony Saint John Park Cant Lahore Pakistan · Pakistan info@saltlampfactory.com
CyberChimps WordPress Themes
© Khalid Maqbool & Sons
Translate »