7 Health Benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt
Books & Media
Eco-friendly
Natural Home
Garden
Herbs
Health
Cancer
Cleanses
Teas
DIY
Beauty
Pet Care
Toggle navigation
Books & Media
Eco-friendly
Natural Home
Garden
Herbs
Health
Cancer
Cleanses
Teas
DIY
Beauty
Pet Care
7 Health Benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt
September 18, 2015
by Sasha
Health
2 Comments
There’s been a lot of hype about Himalayan pink salt lately and for good reasons. Not only is it pretty in pink, but this particular type of salt also provides some amazing health benefits. This salt source is incrementally healthier than your run-of-the-mill processed table salt because it contains many minerals that were left behind in the sediment where this salt is milled.
Himalayan Pink Salt Benefits
Read on to learn about the many ways that Himalayan pink salt can be incorporated into your life to boost your health.
1. Bath Soak
Next time you need to relax after a long, stressful day, add some Himalayan pink salt to your bath for a great mineral soak. Because this particular type of salt contains many nutrients and minerals that we need in our bodies, this is a great way to help improve your skin’s health and to absorb some of those nutrients naturally. Himalayan pink salt is also great for soothing sore, cramped achy, or tired muscles. Magnesium is the key item that helps soothe sore muscles and it is found in abundance in Himalayan pink salt.
2. Detox
Another benefit of adding Himalayan pink salt to your bath is that is acts as a natural detoxifier for your body. As it dissolves in the warm water, this particular salt turns into an ionic solution, drawing toxins out of the skin and adipose tissue. So not only does a Himalayan pink salt soak put good into your body, but it also draws the bad out.
3. Air Purifier
HPS can also be used to purify the air in your home. You have most likely seen a lamp made out of Himalayan pink salt before and just not known it. They are easy to find in specialty stores or online. The lamp works by pulling moisture from the air into the salt; the salt then “traps” the toxins and releases the purified air as it is heated.
4. Sinus Cleanser
Salt water has long been used to clear out your sinuses (really, that’s all that saline solution is). This century-old remedy is improved upon by using Himalayan pink salt, providing you with an even better cleansing of the nasal passages. This particular salt is able to kill bacteria and it also binds to “invaders” in your nasal cavity, dragging them out as it makes its own exit. Next time you need to cleanse your sinuses, simply replace your traditional salt with Himalayan pink salt.
5. Uber-hydration
By creating a solution with water that is saturated with natural, unrefined salt, you are able to consume and absorb more electrolytes from the water. Your body needs electrolytes to keep it properly fueled, which is why you see these electrolytes added to many sports drinks. You can make your own electrolyte-rich beverage without all of the sugar, however, by simply creating a sole (so-lay) with Himalayan pink salt.
6. Lowers Blood Pressure
It might sound crazy to say that salt can lower your blood pressure, but Himalayan pink salt really can. If you replace your usual table/cooking salt with Himalayan pink salt, your body can handle the sodium much better and has an easier time of ridding itself of excess sodium.
7. Reduce Acid Reflux
By balancing your body’s pH level, Himalayan pink salt can act as an antacid and help with acid reflux. Combine one teaspoon of HPS into a glass of lukewarm water and drink up! This will help neutralize excess stomach acid and bring your body back to a healthy balance.
The minerals in Himalayan pink salt can also contribute to improved digestion, stronger bones, better blood circulation, increased metabolism, and improved muscle regeneration. In addition to those nutrients already mentioned, Himalayan pink salt also contains trace amounts of zinc, phosphorus, bromine, and other minerals crucial to a healthy human body. Another benefit is that since the salt crystals are larger, you need less of the pink stuff to get that salty taste and end up eating less salt overall.
If you suffer from skin conditions such as psoriasis or respiratory issues such as asthma, you can even camp out in a Himalayan salt mine and enjoy a spa-like vacation surrounded by the salt to help treat these issues. But you don’t need to take a Himalayan vacation to improve your health; just replace your typical table salt with the Himalayan kind and you’re on your way to a healthier you.
Save
Tagged: health benefits of Himalayan pink salt, Herbal remedies, Himalayan salt, himalayan salt benefits, pink himalayan salt benefits
About Author
Sasha
Sasha has a zeal for the natural things in life. As a Certified Herbalist, she has injected pure naturalism into her diet by eating purely organic foods. She also writes for https://findthecureinnature.com/
2 Response Comments
CHERYL May 23, 2016 at 5:37 am
YES HIMALAYAN PINK SALT IS THE BEST……..RIGHT NOW IT IS IN MY DIET TO RE-START MY THYROID………………N IT WILL STAY IN MY LIFE…….I USED TO USE SEA SALT, STILL DO SOMETIMES……..THX FOR THE INFO……………..
Reply
Betty Potter November 17, 2017 at 12:49 am
What an interesting and informative article! Like these Himalayan Salt, I’ve heard a great deal about Himalayan Salt Lamps. They look beautiful and they have great health benefits as well. I have been using these salt lamps from last three months and I see good positive change in my health.
Reply
Leave A Comment
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Email (required)
Website
Comment...
Please enter your name. Please enter an valid email address. Please enter a message.
Post Comment
Previous9 Reasons You Should Add More Tomatoes to Your Diet	Next9 Effective Home Remedies for Sore Throat
Related Posts
10 Ways Epsom Salt Can Improve Your Health
Organic Pesticides for Your Home Garden (9 Recipes)
11 Amazing Uses for Salt (Home & Health)
Health Benefits of Alkaline Water (plus How to Make…
13 Benefits of Seawater Swimming
Disclaimer
We are not licensed medical professionals. The information displayed is not intended for diagnosing or treating any disease or condition and is for educational purposes only.
Popular posts
How to Reduce Hypercalcemia (High Calcium Levels) Naturally
May 26, 2017 Sasha10
What They Don’t Want You to Know: Vitamin B17 Kills Cancer Cells
June 24, 2018 Sasha9
He Cured Himself of Leukemia Without Drugs or Radiation
January 22, 2016 Sasha8
Have you read it?
7 Reasons Organic Sulfur (MSM) is Absolutely Vital for Your Health
November 16, 2016 Sasha0
Best Health Benefits of Ginger Water
March 19, 2019 Lucas Smith0
Health Benefits of Chives (Allium schoenoprasum)
September 16, 2016 Sasha0
Information
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Disclaimer
Affiliate Disclosure
Contributor Guidelines
Sitemap
Copyright © 2015-2018 Vox Nature. All rights reserved.