Getting Pregnant While Breastfeeding | ConceiveEasy.com
How it Works
Try it Free
Magazine
Reviews
Help
Cart
How it Works
Try it Free
Magazine
Reviews
Help
Trying to conceive?
Get pregnant fast!
Try it Free
Getting Pregnant While Breastfeeding
by Alyssia Granger
The Ultimate Guides
How To Get Pregnant Tips
Fertility Pills
Twins & Multiples
Fertility & Trying To Conceive
Fertility Vitamins & Herbs
TTC a Specific Gender
TTC After 35
Fertility Drugs & Treatments
Infertility & Fertility Problems
TTC After Birth Control
Ovulation
Male Fertility
If you are breastfeeding and want to become pregnant, it can be quite difficult. The female body is designed to prevent women from getting pregnant while breastfeeding. In fact, some women actually use breastfeeding as a natural form of birth control.
Of course, this doesn’t mean that you can’t get pregnant while breastfeeding, only that it might take longer after giving birth for ovulation to return to normal, and then in turn, longer for you to get pregnant. Here are some tips for you to try if you want to get pregnant while you are still breastfeeding. Claim Your 20 Free Pregnancy Tests – Click Here
Pay attention
The most important thing you can do to improve your chances of getting pregnant while breastfeeding is to know whether or not you are ovulating. This will require you to use one of a few methods. You can use an over the counter ovulation prediction kit, chart your basal body temperature, or take note of your cervical mucus. If you find out whether or not you are ovulating, you can make it easier for yourself when you are trying to get pregnant.
Slow down the breastfeeding
Once a breastfeeding woman starts to have longer spacing in between times of breastfeeding, the more likely her ovulation and periods are to return to normal. This usually occurs as a newborn gets older and starts sleeping through the night, and doesn’t need to nurse as much. It can also happen as solid foods are introduced, and breast milk is not needed as often. By spacing out breastfeeding intervals, a woman can sometimes “trick” her body into ovulating again more quickly.
Supplement with formula
Not all moms are willing to do this, but supplementing breast milk with formula might be a good way to extend the amount of time in between feedings. If you are able to cut out nursing sessions when possible, it can help for ovulation and menstruation to return to normal.
What to remember
Make sure that you remember that breastfeeding and in of itself is not a form of birth control, and if you do not want to get pregnant, you should make sure to use some sort of birth control every time you have sex. Many women think that it is impossible for a woman to get pregnant while breastfeeding, but that is not the case. It might take longer or it might be a bit more difficult, but by no means is it impossible,and by no means should a woman use it as a complete and total form of birth control.
Alyssia Granger | ConceiveEasy
Alyssia is mom to 2 giggley twin girls, Sophia and Emma, and son Hunter. She's a Southern girl, passionate about photography, travel and her husband Josh.
Must Read Articles
Good News! Overweight Better Than Under for Fertility
Scary Truth Behind BPA, Infertility, and Miscarriage
Can Acupuncture Boost Your Fertility?
7 Ways to Know If You Are Fertile
What Medicines Can I Take While Pregnant?
When Should You Freeze Your Eggs?
Is a Midwife Safer For Your Childbirth Outcome?
6 Reasons Why You Should Have a Homebirth
Help
How it works
Usage
Ingredients
Returns/Exchanges
Contact us
Education
Getting pregnant tips
How to use an OPK
Tips to conceive a boy
Tips to conceive a girl
Company
About Us
Our promise
Magazine
Reviews
Need assistance?
We’re available by phone (1-800-6-TTCKIT) and by chat
Monday - Friday, 9am to 5pm EST
Call FAQ Chat Email
facebook
pinterest
instagram
youtube
©
2019 ConceiveEasy, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of use & Privacy Policy