Aluminiumdeos are to blame? Or the cell phone radiation? - All My Family Care
Skip to content
All My Family Care
allmyfamilycare.com
Health News
Health Problems
Personal Health
Beauty & Balance
Kids Health
Medications
Family Health
Home » Personal Health » Aluminiumdeos are to blame? Or the cell phone radiation?
2019-02-03 Comments Off on Aluminiumdeos are to blame? Or the cell phone radiation? Personal Health
Aluminiumdeos are to blame? Or the cell phone radiation?
Cancer patients often seek desperate for an explanation for why the disease has taken. Who scares against cancer, and avoiding things that trigger him supposedly. But apparently, it is difficult for many of the actual risks of Smoking, for example, to separate sunburn, Obesity, excessive alcohol or too little movement – of the supposed. A survey of British scientists in the year 2016 showed that a large proportion of respondents, cancer myths, as such, does not recognize. Seven popular views in the fact check.
1. Sweeteners increase the risk of cancer?
In the EU, currently there are eleven sweeteners are allowed. You will always be brought up again in connection with a cancer-promoting effect. In the case of the already approved aspartame for about animal studies, feeding the suspicion that the substance could increase the risk of cancer. So it is administered to Italian researchers mice over a long period of time, high doses of aspartame. The animals developed tumors. The researchers suspected that the substance could also be a danger to people.
The European food safety authority Efsa has evaluated aspartame in 2013 and examined all relevant animal and human studies. You classified the substance in the currently approved maximum dose, is safe, and criticised the mice in the study as methodologically flawed. In the intestine is aspartame completely degraded to amino acids, phenylalanine and aspartic acid, and Methanol. Methanol can promote in high doses, cancer. The amount that is produced by the breakdown of aspartame, is too low, the Efsa. It is even less than in other foods, of course, occur, such as in fruit.
Also steviol glycosides, sweeteners from the Stevia Plant, were tested prior to their approval in 2011 to a risk of cancer. Here there is no risk according to the current data location, also. “Permitted additives to cause the current state of knowledge, neither cancer, nor harm in any other manner the health, as long as they are used only in the quantities specified,” writes the cancer information service. Also in Germany the competent Federal Institute for risk assessment (BfR) pointed out that the assumed relationships were not confirmed after multiple test””.
2. Refrain from emotions or Stress tumors expressed?
A survey conducted by the German cancer research centre on the basis of 2017, according to 61 percent of the 2000 respondents, men and women are convinced that Mental problems and Stress of cancer and the cause, although there is for this Theory is scientifically no evidence at all. The risk of cancer, increases the Stress at the most indirectly: By it leads to people drinking more alcohol, Smoking, or unhealthy diets.
Also, the Belief that a combative attitude helps to defeat the cancer, is still widespread. It also applies here: Clearly this is not proven. A positive attitude can help mentally, by making a donation of hope. For cancer patients, but it can be very relieving, to give grief, anger, and fear of space. A flexible attitude helps often better to cope with the disease.
After all: Only a few Respondents believe that certain personality characteristics are conducive to the development of cancer. The idea of a “cancer personality” is considered to be obsolete. People who are prone to melancholy, have adapted to live or to suppress feelings, do not suffer more often from cancer.
3. Shocks Cause Breast Cancer?
A woman pushes or squeezes the breast. Shortly after the chest is found to be cancer. Triggered the accident? Questions like these are to be found in Internet forums. What is used in retrospect, as an explanation, is not suitable for this, however. “Concepts, according to which, for example, a ‘gland contusion’ promotes cancer, come from homeopathy and naturopathy”, it says on the side of the cancer information service. “You can not go back the majority of past centuries, as today’s Knowledge about the cancer formation.” Evidence of impacts, blows, bruises, contusions or other traumas promote cancer, is not there.
4. Cause Deodorants with aluminum breast cancer?
Aluminum is in Deodorant, food, and medicinal products, packaging, or utensils and can go from there in the body. It is proved that high doses in humans, is a poison for the nervous system. In animals, adverse effects are evidenced also on the Embryo, writes the BfR.
The European food safety authority Efsa has therefore established a tolerable weekly intake for Aluminium from food. It is at a milligram of Aluminium per kilogram of body weight per week. The BfR assumes that this amount is exhausted, part of the consumer alone is through food. Who uses, in addition, Deodorants with Aluminium, it could exceed duration, so that aluminum anreichere in the body. The BfR therefore advises caution, Deodorants with aluminum, not directly after shaving or to damaged skin apply. Or equal to aluminum-free Deodorants.
However, That Deodorants with Aluminium in breast cause cancer, is not proven. In studies in the tissue of women affected by elevated aluminium were observed values. However, other studies could not confirm this. The data were not consistent, according to the most recent overview of work in the “Deutschen ärzteblatt” . The majority of studies find no connection. Moreover, it is not clear whether aluminum accumulates as the other minerals – increased as a result of a cancer disease in the tumor tissue, and thus the increased values accompanying more would be the appearance of a cancer and not the trigger.
5. Methadone for cancer help?
From a “miracle weapon” in 2017, the speech, reports in various media were Ill hope to Die was tumor cells through the addition of methadone to cancer resources better? A researcher had observed this in the lab. Individual patients also reported Successes.
However, clinical studies are lacking, the effect is not sufficiently proven, interaction and side effects far too little known. In addition, have shown in cell cultures and animal studies, only those doses have an effect that is likely to be converted to be human toxic, writes the “Science Media Center” .
Methadone is approved for cancer, only for pain treatment, not the therapy. Professional societies recommend it in an uncontrolled manner, since it is not certain whether the Benefit exists at all and whether it outweighs the risks. “On the Basis of the available data use of methadone as a cancer drug outside of clinical trials is not justified,” writes the German cancer aid .
6. Cell Phone Causes Radiation Of Tumors?
Also, in the theme there are only observational studies. That the mobile phone causes cancer, therefore, can not be proved. Laboratory tests showed “no meaningful clues to cell damage,” writes the cancer information service. Biological mechanisms, such as phone Calls or masts cancer could cells, are not known. And the study location is not even in the observational studies. The majority have shown no increased risk for cancers such as leukemia, brain or testicular tumors or other cancers in the head and neck area.
In a study was, however, observed that people who used very much and long with the phone, had an increased risk for a certain rare type of brain tumors. However, these data are controversial, some experts believe that they are a statistical coincidence. The WHO has classified mobile phones in 2011, however, as “possibly carcinogenic” – a conservative estimate, the residual does not exclude the risk, even if the majority of the data shows so far in a different direction. To prevent, advises the Federal office for radiation protection, for example, to make calls as short as possible with the phone or use the headset.
7. Sports or a Massage metastases distributed in the body?
Should cancer patients preserve be better? Could detach the tumor cells by massage, or sports, and to distribute in the body? This is not the case: A Massage relaxes and movement before, during and after the therapy the blessing. However, you should be on one’s own possibilities and goals, all of which will be Concerned, best to discuss with the doctor. Who does not want to train alone, it can be connected, for example, a cancer sports group.
Related posts:
How Exoskeletons physical work healthier to make
Risk for the ears
New cholesterol-armed: So dangerous is the blood of fat for our heart
“I hate my life. And I love it“
A kiss that killed the little Kiara? Baby dies after Herpes infection
diagnosishealth
Post navigation
Previous Post:What are the virus to the Unborn child damage
Next Post:Shortage of Anxiety Drug Buspirone Creates Alarm Among Patients, Doctors
Search for:
Search
Personal Health News
2019-04-19
3-Year-Old Born With Backward Legs Walks for the First Time in Emotional Viral Video
2019-04-18
Signs of serious diseases? What hides behind dark rings around the eyes
2019-04-17
Terry and Rebecca Crews Are Marriage Goals—Here's What You Didn't Know About Them
Beauty News
2019-04-18
The Optavia Diet Ranked High for Fast Weight Loss—Here's What You Need to Know About It
2019-04-16
Dollar General Unveils Private-Label Makeup Line
2019-04-16
How to Grow Hair Quickly – 8 Tips for Faster Growing Hair
Medications News
2019-04-18
MediciNova Announces Plans to Move Forward with a Phase 3 Trial of MN-166 (ibudilast) in ALS
2019-04-15
Fentanyl deaths up 122 percent in West Virginia, researchers say
Health Problems News
2019-04-18
Harmonization of resting-state functional MRI data across multiple imaging sites
2019-04-17
The Leukemia Atlas: researchers unveil proteins that signal disease
2019-04-17
Diabetic drug shown to reduce the risk of heart disease in non-diabetic patients
Kinds Heath News
2019-04-18
Dad Pals! Justin Timberlake on Tiger Woods: We Bonded Over ‘Being Fathers’
2019-04-17
Parenteral antimicrobial tx at home burdens children’s caregivers
Copyright © 2019
We and our partners use cookies on this site to improve our service, perform analytics, personalize advertising, measure advertising performance, and remember website preferences.Ok