VRM: The Autism Report Part 2 – Missing Links « Vaccine Resistance Movement
“H1N1 likely to come back as a seasonal flu." – Media
Health Matters
VRM: Alternative Cancer Cures That Work & Your Government Still Can't Ban Them From Use!
VRM: Dr. Andrew Wakefield Being Crucified By Big Pharma
VRM: Dr. Wolfgang Wodarg Takes On The WHO
VRM: GlaxoSmithKline Implicated In Systemic Clinical Drug Trial Deception & Insider Fraud
VRM: H1N1 Shot Reactions – Miscarriages
VRM: Health Matters Part 1
VRM: Health Matters Part 2
VRM: Lupus Disease – Natural Cure Succeeds Where Western Medicine Fails
VRM: Massive Recall Of Fifty Variations Of Children's Tylenol, Motrin, Zyrtec & Benadryl Products Forces FDA Into The Spotlight
VRM: Morgellons Syndrome & Chemtrails
VRM: Open Forum – Damage, Ethics, Martial Law, Vaccine Fraud, Freedom
VRM: Pregnancy Tips
VRM: The Vanishing Sperm Count
Vaccine Info
Vaccine Resistance Movement Launches Worldwide Autism Study
VRM: "One For All" Universal Flu Vaccine – 21st Century Genetic Roulette Part 1
VRM: "One For All" Universal Flu Vaccine – 21st Century Genetic Roulette Part 2
VRM: A Concise Compendium To The Problem With Vaccines Part 3 – Synthetic Genomics & The Death Of Natural Immunity
VRM: California Institutes Mandatory DTaP Vaccination For Middle/High School Students
VRM: Canada's 2010-11 Flu Vaccine A Deadly Concoction
VRM: Closed Door CDC Meeting Reveals Industry Cover-up Of Heavy Metal Toxicity In Vaccines
VRM: Dr. Wakefield's Imminent Vindication – Turning Of The Tide
VRM: Ebola Report
VRM: Family Charts The Gradual Decline Of Daughter Attributed To Vaccine Trauma
VRM: First Strike – The Dark Side of The Vitamin K Shot
VRM: Flu Death Statistics – WHO & The Big Lie
VRM: Gardasil/Cervarix – A Legacy Of Shame
VRM: Gardasil/Cervarix Part 2 – Demyelination, Multiple Sclerosis & the Copaxone Connection
VRM: Genetic Engineering & The Next Pandemic
VRM: GlaxosmitheKline Herpes Vaccine Fails Safety Litmus Test
VRM: H1N1 Bio-weaponry Incorporated
VRM: H1N1 Vaccine Surplus From 2009 Reveals Growing Distrust of Gov't & WHO – Cost To Taxpayers Exceeds 2.5 Billion
VRM: L-Histidine, Squaline, & Human Chorionic Gonadotrophin In Vaccines – Nature Off Balance
VRM: Mandatory Vaccinatio​ns – How They Will Be Implemente​d
VRM: Measles Report
VRM: Medical Industry Studies Prove Influenza Vaccine Is Both Dangerous & Ineffective
VRM: Meningitis Vaccine To Be Forced On 7th Graders & All College Students – Full Analysis
VRM: Multi-Virus Vaccine Quinvaxem Proving Deadly
VRM: Mycoplasma – Rogue Pathogen in Vaccines
VRM: New Generation Cancer Vaccine Will Cause Infertility
VRM: Pandemic Preparedness & The Dark Agenda Ahead
VRM: PCV Vaccine Exposed – Breeding Ground For Staphylococcus Aureus
VRM: Primary Reasons Not To Get The Flu Shot
VRM: Safe Alternatives to Vaccines
VRM: Safe Effective Recipe To Combat H1N1 Flu Symptoms & Vaccine Damage
VRM: SB277 Road To Tyranny
VRM: Spanish Influenza – Criminal Timeline
VRM: Squaline – The Military Agenda Comes Home
VRM: The A,B,C's of Respiratory Health
VRM: The Autism Report
VRM: The Autism Report Part 2 – Missing Links
VRM: The Awakening has Begun
VRM: The Confidenti​al Case-files of GlaxoSmith​Kline – Cover-up, Deferral & Denial of Responsibi​lity for Vaccine-re​lated Premature Deaths
VRM: The Flu Report
VRM: The Problem With Vaccines
VRM: The Problem With Vaccines Part 2 – Synergistic Effect of Heavy Metal Toxicity On The Body
VRM: The Problem With Vaccines Part 3 – Synthetic Genomics & The Death Of Natural Immunity
VRM: The Problem With Vaccines Part 4 – Primary Aspects of Vaccine Toxicity Affecting The Body
VRM: The Problem With Vaccines Part 5A – Detoxification & Restoration of the Body
VRM: The Problem With Vaccines Part 5B – Detoxification & Restoration of the Body
VRM: The Re-emergence of Polio in The Third World (compliments of the World Health Organization & Bill Gates)
VRM: The Rise of Mutagenic Viruses
VRM: Top Ten Reasons Why Children Should Avoid The H1N1 Vaccine
VRM: UK Institutes Brand of Medical Martial Law With 'Super-Vaccination' Day
VRM: United States 2010-11 Flu Vaccine Afluria – Buyer Beware
VRM: Vaccine Clinic – A Concise Compendium To The Problem With Vaccines
VRM: Vaccine Ingredients
VRM: Vaccine Risks – Links
VRM: Vaccine Toxicity – Middle Ear Infections and Autism
VRM: Vaccines Do Contain Aborted Human Fetal Tissue
VRM: Weaponized Polio & The African Green Monkey Conundrum
VRM: World Health Organization Mafia – Lies, Flies & Conflicts of Interest
Vaccine Propaganda
VRM: Aids & The WHO – Criminal Intent
VRM: Australian Vaccine Scandal
VRM: Birth of Medical & Scientific Dictatorship – Future Scenarios
VRM: Britain's National Health Service – Criminal Syndicate Swindling Billions While Rapidly Destroying Health Care System
VRM: CDC-Gate Exposes A Trail of Fraud Behind Autism Studies
VRM: Council On Foreign Relations 10/16/09 – Major Influence on Government Vaccine Policy
VRM: Exposing The Polio Scam
VRM: Former Pharmaceutical Representative Gwen Olsen Exposes Systemic Industry Fraud
VRM: Media Spin & Swine Flu Hysteria
VRM: Medical Martial Law In The US – Sleeping Giant Of Tyranny
VRM: Polio – United Nations & The Great Cull
VRM: Swine Flu Meets Dr. Frankenstein – The Search For A Perfect Bio-Weapon
VRM: The Rockefeller Foundation Drafts A Post-Pandemic Scenario
VRM: Vaccine Industry Deception, Propaganda & Media Collusion
VRM: Vaccine Industry Quotes
VRM: World Health Organization & Vaccine Manufacturers Implicated In Massive H1N1 Financial Scam Involving Kickbacks & Cover-ups
VRM: Our Petition
Our Petition – Comments
Our Petition – A Universal Declaration Of Resistance To Mandatory Vaccinations
Petition: Doctors & Nurses Say NO To Mandatory Vaccinations – Testimonials
Petition: Parents of Vaccine Damaged Children say NO to Mandatory Vaccinations – Testimonials
VRM: August Rally Statements
VRM: Human Rights & Voluntary Consent
VRM: Photo Gallery
VRM: Vaccine Carnage Hotline – Charting Physiological & Neurological Reactions
Stay Updated: Posts | Comments
About Us
Contact Us
VRM Articles
VRM Video
VRM Wire 13
VRM Wire1
VRM Wire10
VRM Wire11
VRM Wire12
VRM Wire14
VRM Wire2
VRM Wire3
VRM Wire4
VRM Wire5
VRM Wire6
VRM Wire7
VRM Wire8
VRM Wire9
VRM Worldwide Autism Study
VRM: Silent No More Project DVD
VRM: Special Report
VRM: Updates
VRM: Vaccine Summit Vancouver
« VRM: Ebola Report
VRM: Genetic Engineering & The Next Pandemic »
VRM: The Autism Report Part 2 – Missing Links
VRM: The Autism Report Part 2 - Missing Links
4th October 2015 - By Joel Lord
This article is intended to be read in conjunction with ‘VRM: The Autism Report‘:
A mother recently sent me this note: ‘I know it wouldn’t change anything to know for sure, but I still believe it was mighty coincidental that my talking, walking, sleeping, loving 15 month old baby, became a frightened, angry, screaming, wordless, sleepless, traumatised little child in the days, weeks and months following her MMR vaccine in 1996.’
Another parent of a vaccine-injured child recounts specific, all too familiar details which led to his sudden diagnosis of Autism:
‘He was a happy, healthy boy who was developmentally ahead of the game. Had his Mmr (Measles, Mumps, Rubella vaccine series) at 15 months old. That very night I found him seizing in his crib with a 105.5 fever.
He stopped walking, talking and interacting that very day. Lost all his speech and fine motor skills and was in his own little world after that. Started spinning/flapping/clapping/hitting and other severe sensory seeking.
He began having seizures daily and by 15 months old we got an epilepsy diagnosis, and finally by age 2 we got the autism diagnosis. He also struggles with major digestive issues, anxiety, very aggressive behavior, adhd (literally has a 2 second attention span) and major sleep issues.
My life has literally been a nightmare because of this the last 3 years. And of course everyone says it wasn’t the mmr shot! I know damn well that it was the mmr shot!! I have video of him the day before the shot singing ABC and then video of him after we got home from the hospital rocking with a blanket over his head and humming. I have not vaccinated my girls and my son hasn’t received any since then!’
And it just so happens that Early Onset Autism occurs anywhere from 12-18 months, which coincides precisely with the most intense period of standard immunization.
How many vaccines are getting in under the radar during this critical window of time? By 15 months the average child in most developed countries has received, conservatively, a minimum of 25 injections. This results in severe heavy metal toxicity interfering with the earliest primary stage of development, particularly during the first 6 months after birth.
According to Mainstream Medical Industry statistics (which are far below the actual trend on the ground, in our communities), Autism is now occurring at a rate of 1 in 68 – based on outdated CDC estimates from 2010. This translates to a doubling of cases since 2004.
The reality is far more glaring and troubling than Government Health Departments will contend.
Within one generation, Autism will be commonplace in most families.
“When 1 in 2 of the population has Autism you either have or care for someone with it, and that’s it/ You have no standing army, no economy, no infrastructure whatsoever, and that is the way this is headed (based on MIT model of the increased rate of Autism – estimated to reach 1 in 2 by 2025-2032), and there is absolutely no reason to believe that the trajectory of this curve is going to change. This is the most important issue in America today.” Dr. Andrew Wakefield
“It’s not the year to year numbers that concern us. It’s the decade to decade. The fact that we have 1 in 45 children with a very serious neurological condition is a catastrophe by any measure.” Jill Escher of the Autism Society of San Francisco
‘Using regression analysis and controlling for family income and ethnicity, the relationship between the proportion of children who received the recommended vaccines by age 2 years and the prevalence of autism (AUT) or speech or language impairment (SLI) in each U.S. state from 2001 and 2007 was determined.
A positive and statistically significant relationship was found: The higher the proportion of children receiving recommended vaccinations, the higher was the prevalence of AUT or SLI. A 1% increase in vaccination was associated with an additional 680 children having AUT or SLI.
The results suggest that although mercury has been removed from many vaccines, other culprits may link vaccines to autism. Further study into the relationship between vaccines and autism is warranted.‘ Journal of toxicology & environmental health 2011;74(14):903-16
Note: ‘The higher the proportion of children receiving recommended vaccinations, the higher was the prevalence of AUT (Autism).’
How is it that we, as a society, have allowed this to happen, routinely permitting our children to be subjected to multiple heavy metals, live viruses, mycoplasma, antibiotics, formaldehyde, detergent, diploid cells, phenol dye & excipient buffers, when they are at their most vulnerable stage of early development?
Which specific set of circumstances led to this unprecedented epidemic impacting our communities?
The answer rests in the hands of science, the science of the human body, the delicate science of a baby’s brain & central nervous system.
As determined in ‘The Autism Report (Part 1)‘, babies & young children are highly vulnerable to any vaccine-derived neurotoxic breach, impinging on their brain & central nervous system functionality.
Newborn babies are at a significantly higher risk of susceptibility to long-term damage than children past 24 months old, because their brain & central Nervous System are undergoing the most rapid development at the very time they receive the greatest number of vaccinations. Again, science proves why.
Many of these childhood vaccines contain Aluminum Hydroxide, used as an adjuvant, ostensibly to jumpstart the Immune System into producing antibodies against a particular virus. Aluminum is a highly negatively (net) charged bio-active metal, 64 times more positive than colloidal blood product (any foreign substances in the bloodstream other than water). It also has the properties of a coagulant – attracting everything in its path, which results in a form of sludging.
Bear in mind that all conjoined toxins found in these shots will electro-chemically bind with Aluminum in the bloodstream, including Thimerosal – another deadly neurotoxin (which has a lesser bio-active charge than Aluminum). Mercury actually eats through Aluminum, and they form into an amalgam.
Note: Whereas Aluminum is the more dominant metal as a coagulant & in terms of its net charge on the body, Mercury is clearly the more corrosive element.
The resulting composite “sludge” is drawn magnetically through the bloodstream to areas of fatty tissue (which are highly electrical), predominantly the pathways leading to the Brain, the Meninges, the Heart muscle and primary organs, where they accumulatively clog the capillaries & arterials,
Invariably, this chain reaction leads to varying degrees of stagnant blood & prolonged oxygen deprivation, referred to as Ischemia – a singeing of the neural pathways from toxic overload, which prevents vital oxygen from reaching the Brain, literally inhibiting normal development, what Charles A. Lantz, Ph.D has identified as ‘hyper-excitability of neural tissue.’
And if these processes are weakened enough, and the conditions are right (ie. compromised immunity from birth or a pre-existing medical condition) a baby will often succumb to Encephalitis, inflammation of the Brain & Meninges, manifesting as ‘diffuse neuropsychological dysfunction’, and Anaphylaxis, a system-wide allergic & functional breakdown, described as ‘a severe, whole-body allergic reaction to a chemical that has become an allergen’, which can trigger a chain reaction of neuro-developmental difficulties & a host of autoimmune-related dysfunction.
Timing is CRITICAL in all instances pertaining to the sudden/gradual onset of Autism Spectrum Disorder.
1. A newborn lacks sufficient protection to guard against premature damage to the Blood-Brain Barrier (physiological mechanism that alters the permeability of Brain capillaries so that some substances, such as certain drugs, are prevented from entering Brain tissue, while other substances are allowed to enter freely) on the Brain.
A baby’s Blood-Brain Barrier takes no less than 7 months in utero (latter stages of third trimester) to establish its primary protective shielding – so that vital, unfinished area is still completely raw & vulnerable to Vaccine type toxicity.
2. The Myelin Sheath, the (electrical) insulator of the Brain cells, (‘the protective sheath around axons‘…’A long fiber of a nerve cell/neuron that acts somewhat like a fiber-optic cable carrying outgoing/efferent messages in the nervous system.’), a casing or insulator which protects the baby’s basic cells & Meninges (‘3 layers of protective tissue called the dura, arachnoid, & pia mater that surround the neuraxis…axial unpaired part of the central nervous system‘) are also both under-developed at this stage. In fact, a baby undergoes continuous Myelin formation well after birth.
3. Similarly, the Meninges layering is designed to insulate the Brain & Spinal cord from injury – notwithstanding the accumulative barrage of synergistic toxicity associated with early childhood Vaccines. ”Probably no field in embryology has been less explored than that relating to the meninges.”
There is no safe threshold for any Vaccines, whatsoever.
The Brain is an electrical field, a massive electrical grid complex which regulates the entire operation of life for the body.
The human body is hard-wired to the Brain, an intricate bio-electric network; analogous to a tree deeply rooted into this matrix of highly electrical “soil”.
‘Through my extensive research and my work throughout the years, I have discovered that vaccinations are causing impaired blood flow (ischemia) to brain and body from clinically silent to death. These are strokes – across the board for all of us. I have reason to believe that all are being affected and all vaccinations ARE causing the overwhelming rise in autism, specific learning disabilities, attention deficit disorders, sudden infant death, gulf war syndrome, dementia, seizure disorders, some cancers it would appear, and much much more.
The brain and nervous system is wired in a very specific format. Functions are localized to specific areas. Having studied brain and behavior, neurosciences, clinical neuropsychology, child neurodevelopment, functional brain imaging, clinical neurology, clinical neuropsychiatry, clinical medicine, immunology, hematology, tests and measurement, and understanding the tools and assumptions and techniques of mainstream medicine,
I fell in the unique position of having being able to see clinical medicine problems, from a multitude of simultaneous areas of expertise and scientific knowledge. Relative to the human brain, I understood “rules and laws” of brain function relative to brain damage and the mechanisms of medical physiology that can uniquely cause unique patterns of brain damage in ways that my clinical skills could detect, that mainstream neuroimaging cannot. The initial “aha” moment was in 2001.
I was seeing, autistic patients, coming out of medical school – they had a trans-cortical motor aphasia, isolation of speech syndrome, and very specific cranial nerve palsies that could ONLY be accounted for by ischemic stroke. Remarkably, my studies of schizophrenia, dementia, and research exposure to neuroimaging modalities and brain and behavioral assessments before medical school contributed to my ability to “see” what has been in front of our eyes all along – ischemic strokes and brain damages – from vaccinations.
The problem has been we neither knew how to measure, when to measure or what to measure, let alone what the limitations were, of the tools we have been using to measure brain integrity, in health, disease and disorder. It has taken the past several years to decipher how ischemic brain damages were happening in the autism we were seeing and the many other neurodevelopmental disorders. I now believe I have the answers for this, or so it appears and some solutions. ‘ Dr. Andrew Moulden
A newborn baby’s overall capacity to develop & thrive is ultimately determined by the viability of the Brain to carry out its complex systems of operation throughout the body.
There is no disputing the science of a newborn baby’s Brain & central Nervous System, the SCIENCE of the electro-chemical synergistic nature of Vaccine-derived neurotoxins (Aluminum & Thimerosal), injected into deep muscle tissue/subcutaneously, entering the bloodstream; that, in point of scientific fact, all heavy metals are magnetically drawn to areas of fatty tissue, primarily the Brain & central Nervous System…where they systematically erode the primary core circuits necessary in supporting early childhood development.
The Lymphatic System, which produces White Blood cells (Lymphocytes), crucial to determining the capacity of your Immune system to fight off (adapt to) incoming viral, bacterial & fungal infections, is, not surprisingly, hard-wired to the Brain, intertwined, buried deep within the Meninges layering of tissue.
Not only is the Lymphatic System interconnected with the Brain, but clearly, all systems of functionality are also intricately linked to the primary core of the Brain.
‘The discovery was made possible by the work of Antoine Louveau, PhD, a postdoctoral fellow in Kipnis’ lab. The (lymphatic) vessels were detected after Louveau developed a method to mount a mouse’s meninges – the membranes covering the brain – on a single slide so that they could be examined as a whole. “It was fairly easy, actually,” he said. “There was one trick: We fixed the meninges within the skullcap, so that the tissue is secured in its physiological condition, and then we dissected it. If we had done it the other way around, it wouldn’t have worked.”
After noticing vessel-like patterns in the distribution of immune cells on his slides, he tested for lymphatic vessels and there they were.’
This is further confirmation of my entire thesis on Vaccine toxicity and its effects on a child’s Brain & central Nervous System.
It also explains the resulting sinkhole effect: where-by Vaccine-injured children are typically unable to acquire, and in turn, unable to harness their vital supply of trace minerals & anti-oxidants; which ultimately cripples their Immune System, culminating in varying degrees of Inflammatory Bowel Disease, often referred to as “Leaky Gut Syndrome“.
“Autism is a complex metabolic disorder involving multiple organ systems, primarily the toxicological, immunological, gastrointestinal, and neurological systems. These organ systems are probably the most poorly understood and the most complicated of any in our body, and they’re also the most tightly integrated.
For instance, more than 70% of the immune system is housed in the gastrointestinal tract, so you can’t have a problem in one and not the other. All of the neurotransmitters (the chemicals in your brain) also exist in the gastrointestinal system, where they have separate roles. The GI system is one of the main barriers against neurotoxins.
Everything is tightly connected. Doctors like to specialize. We become cardiologists or gastroenterologists, and then we don’t have to answer all of the questions. Unfortunately the body doesn’t work that way. You have to look at the body as a whole if you expect to make a difference when you’re treating autistic children.” Bryan Jepson, MD
Note: “more than 70% of the immune system is housed in the gastrointestinal tract, “
Why is the Immune System crippled in these children with Autism?
‘Vitamin A plays a central role in the development & differentiation of white blood cells, such as lymphocytes, which are essential to the immune response. Vitamins C & E are dependent on Vitamin A.‘
Therefore, if these levels are depleted, the bedrock of your immunity is undermined. All Vaccines straightjacket the Immune System, by stripping the body of its ability to harness vital trace minerals & antioxidants; the essential arsenal that any child requires to successfully overcome the symptoms of any incoming infection.
Children coping with Autism are typically starved of Vitamin D3. As a result, the Lymphocytes in their lungs can’t process Vitamin C & E, which leads to Respiratory dysfunction & increased vulnerability to ALL infections. ‘Vitamin D is required to increase the circulation of calcium and phosphorous, two minerals necessary for healthy bones. ‘
The kidneys produce Vitamin D3 & the liver plays a vital role in the functioning of D3 throughout the body. When these organs are compromised, it will throw your entire metabolism off.
“Low Vitamin D levels were 8 times more likely in children with Autism, than in typically developing individuals. The chances of that happening by random chance are one in a million.” Dr. John Cannell, MD., founder of the Vitamin D Council
Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder have had the rug pulled out from under them at a critical stage of early development, depleted of their vital mineral & antioxidant base, stripped of Mitochondrial & Thyroid efficiency/functionality, their vulnerable “electrical grid” nerve center violated prematurely – which significantly inhibits the capacity of the body to carry out its normal systems of operation; and all the evidence points to heavy metal toxicity derived from standard Immunization Vaccines (25 injections by 15 months conservatively).
The gut level “plumbing” crisis, a hallmark of Autism, is the end result of a “house” in crisis; ground zero for neurological & neuro-developmental dysfunction.
Dr. Jeffrey Bradstreet, M.D., of Melbourne, Florida was a warrior, fighting on behalf children with Autism, exposing the link between heavy metal-containing Vaccines and resulting neurological & neuro-developmental degeneration, leading to Early Onset Autism.
Bradstreet also represented families in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims – which tried to brandish him a pariah in the Medical community. He was a tireless researcher who understood Autism down to the micro-biological level; a preeminent healer, able to restore the health and well-being of countless Vaccine-injured children through holistic protocols.
He identified the Gut-Brain connection in all children coping with Autism, the critical ink between Vaccine-derived oxidative stress on the body, brain inflammation and ensuing Inflammatory Bowel disease (Crones, Colitis) – a benchmark problem in all cases of regressive (Intermediate/Advanced) Autism.
His treatment protocols focused on a key determinant factor, which aids in regulating Brain-Gut functionality, a neuro-peptide G-protein-coupled receptor located in the Duodenum (Small Intestine) known as Secretin.
Secretin is defined as: ‘a neurotransmitter (a chemical messenger) in the neuropeptide group. It is one of the hormones that controls digestion (gastrin and cholecystokinin [CCK] are the others). It is a polypeptide composed of 27 amino acids and is secreted by cells in the digestive system when the stomach empties.
Secretin stimulates:
a. the pancreas to emit digestive fluids that are rich in bicarbonate which neutralizes the acidity of the intestines,
b. the stomach to produce pepsin (an enzyme that aids digestion of protein), and
c. the liver to produce bile.‘
Individuals coping with Autism have a marked decrease in levels of Secretin, upwards of a 50% drop. Without this versatile & powerful hormone, neural capacity in the brain is drastically hindered, which cripples the body’s overall metabolism. causing a chain reaction of problems, including ‘visceral inflammation’, uncontrollable (Sub-Clinical Epileptic/Grand Mal type) seizures, decrease in ‘stress-responsivity/adaptation’, ‘learning and memory’ loss, weakening of ‘behavioral and autonomic reflex control’. and ”pathology in the gastrointestinal tract.’ – linked to yeast overgrowth and toxic bacterial build-up: a hall-mark of intermediate/advanced Autism.
Note: ‘Within 5 weeks of the secretin infusion, a significant amelioration of the children’s gastrointestinal symptoms was observed, as was a dramatic improvement in their behavior, manifested by improved eye contact, alertness, and expansion of expressive language. These clinical observations suggest an association between gastrointestinal and brain function in patients with autistic behavior.‘ Department of Pediatrics, University of Maryland at Baltimore, 1998
‘The finding in two autistic children of 50% fewer secretin cells in the duodenum suggests that impaired secretin systems would impair vagal (Brain) transmission. Vagal stimulators that ameliorate depression and intractable epilepsy. may act in part by reflexively stimulating release of secretin from the brain-gut stress regulatory axis. Autistic children exhibit dysregulation of vagal networks which normally synchronize the EEG, protect against arrhythmias and preserve visceral metabolism.
Secretin neurons localize to several brain regions that are closely connected to the cerebellum, such as the hypothalamus, which act together to coordinate a wide range of activities, including behavioral and autonomic reflex control of visceral organ system response patterns. Secretinergic processes in paraventricular and preoptic hypothalamic nuclei are implicated in neurohumoral mechanisms related to blood-brain barrier functions.
The secretin receptor is a G-protein-coupled receptor. A newly identified function of G-protein-coupled receptors is potential sensing of environmental cues during cerebellar histogenesis.
Our interest in secretin includes another neuro-peptide that is involved in the modulation of gut function, oxytocin. The actions of secretin and oxytocin extend beyond the cerebellum to include resolution of visceral inflammation, together with its neurological manifestations in multiple sites.
We have proposed that secretin may be critical to stress-responsivity/adaptation and to learning and memory. Secretin may also act as a neuromodulator in many brain regions other than the cerebellum.‘ Columbia University Department of Anatomy, College of Physicians & Surgeons USA The Cerebellum. 02/2006
Note: ‘Consequently, conditions associated with disruption in secretin modulation in the limbic system (brain) might also be associated with evidence of pathology in the gastrointestinal tract (gut).‘
Dr. Jeffrey Bradstreet was a pioneer in the field of Autism research and treatment, who left no stone unturned. His approach, which combined the consistent use of anti-oxidants with neuro-peptides (Secretin), has helped improve the lives of thousands of Autistic patients; in many instances, culminating in a partial/complete remission of Autism symptoms.
He sought collaborations with similar risk-taking, ground-breaking doctors & researchers, and utilized any/all complimentary protocols, whichever method guaranteed tangible results in these individuals: including the highly controversial use of so-called “unapproved medicine“, ie. Cannabis/Hemp Oil, and the immunomodulatory protein, Gc-MAF (Globulin component protein-derived macrophage activating factor), a “protein which naturally occurs in human blood, that can be removed, concentrated, and injected into a sick patient.”
“Cure, in Medicine, implies abolished. gone with no risk of coming back, as opposed to remission. The cure word is real in Autism. There are some individuals that have already been cured, they’re not at risk for remission, they’re on with their lives, they’re in their twenties…home-free. Now it doesn’t exist for every kid.
It really depends on what you think you’re treating. Are you treating Autism? Good luck with that. That’s kind of a behavioral intervention. Really what you’re treating is this massive, environmental immunological insult on your kids during critical times of development, some of which we can repair…but in other cases we hit these road-blocks.
In defence of Dr. Wakefield, and I’ve known Andy for twenty years, and my (Autistic) son was actually scoped at the Royal Free Hospital by that whole team before they were dismantled, his work has never been discredited. They objected to the way he got his IRB (Independent Review board) and timing sequences. The Inflammatory Bowel Disease is there. It’s not been discredited. It’s been maligned…bad-mouthed to the point that no physician will deal with it, and research it.
Lots of complicated interactions between the gut and the brain. It’s bio-directional. It’s not just the gut influencing the brain. The brain influences the gut.
I think you could define Autism as a deficiency of these anti-microbial peptides (very small molecules that get into mucous, and are there to defend you naturally), because they can’t defend themselves. So they wind up getting lots of potential insulting bacteria that colonize them and overgrow, because they can’t protect their mucous barrier in the Intestinal tract.
The CB1 (G protein-coupled cannabinoid receptor located primarily in the central and peripheral nervous system) is being abnormally regulated in Autism. That is kind of like the gas pedal & brake operation for the big pyramidal cells, which are the neuro-circuit cells that are firing and creating the harmonics and the rhythms that we use for our thoughts and memories.” Dr. Jeffrey Bradstreet
For many of these Autistic children & young adults under Bradstreet’s care (upwards of 900 case files), the administering of Secretin, combined with potent anti-oxidants saw dramatic results, from improved motor skills in the Brain to an overall marked increase in communication, sensory awareness, social adaptability, the stabilizing of the Gut.
Consequently, his work represents the missing link, the final piece in the Autism puzzle. Secretin operates/functions as short-cut conduit or super-highway, between the Brain & Gut.
This factor is critical in clearing a path toward ultimately overcoming and reversing the myriad symptoms of Autism.
Vaccine researchers in the field have long recognized that Gut dysfunction and premature (vaccine-derived) damage to the Brain & central Nervous System are intrinsically related.
Bradstreet, however, has gone further, identifying the actual linchpin, or chemistry, a measurable (non-genetic) marker, drastically depleted in those individuals suffering from Autism Spectrum Disorder. The quantity & consistency of his treatment protocols made all the difference. We must carry his work forward.
Why would a doctor so dedicated to inspiring the lives of children, a devout family man devoted to his patients, loved by everyone, seek to end his own life, turning a pistol on himself and pulling the trigger?
Perhaps the answer to this question is buried in the Medical system he found himself at odds with, particularly the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, the bottomless pit of Vaccine-Industry fallout. Bradstreet was a constant thorn in their side, high on the Vaccine Industry black-list; and his ongoing defiance of the FDA, in utilizing alternative treatment protocols, only fueled the fire of controversy.
‘Bradstreet’s treatments included a wide variety of dietary supplements, secretin infusions, immunoglobulin therapy, chelation, glutathione, and prednilisone. He ordered numerous laboratory tests, many of which were non-standard tests not approved by the FDA, or ones performed outside the U.S.
[Bradstreet] began with a diagnosis of autism, yeast overgrowth, and a fungal infection in July, 1999. Subsequent diagnoses included autoimmune encephalopathy; autoimmune disease not elsewhere classified and immune mechanism disease not elsewhere classified); allergic gastroenteritis and autoimmune disease; unspecified urticaria, unspecified encephalopathy, and allergic gastroenteritis; encephalopathy unspecified, unspecified disorder of immune mechanism, gastroenteritis, and colitis; disturbance of sulphur-bearing amino acid metabolism, unspecified disorder of immune mechanism, unspecified disorder of metabolism, and encephalopathy unspecified; the same diagnoses in July, 2004, with the addition of “rule out epilepsy, unspecified”; autoimmune disease not elsewhere classified, unspecified disorder of metabolism, unspecified disorder of immune mechanism, and encephalopathy not elsewhere classified; and toxic effect of mercury and its compounds, autoimmune disease not elsewhere classified, and unspecified disorder of immune mechanism.‘ Special Master Vowell
All children coping with Autism are plagued with some degree of Gut (Bowel/Intestinal) dysfunction; a byproduct of prolonged/acute exposure to vaccines, antibiotics, non-organic meat products (Prions), Trans Fats (“bad”cholesterol), Gluten, Casein, household (Commercial) & environmental (Industrial) carcinogens/toxins – involves the leeching out of healthy “probiotic” bacteria & proliferation of invasive “pathogenic” bacteria through “scarring” perforations in gut wall lining; leaving you vulnerable to most infections.
There are several “red flag” indicators commonly associated with chronic Gut dysfunction:
1. Gluten & Casein intolerance in the Gut
2. Gut “flora” (yeast overgrowth/Candida)
3. Mycoplasma (resistant to antibiotics)
4. Prions (meat derived bacterial contaminant)
Note: Gut “flora”, a toxic byproduct of Gluten & Casein intolerance (including that of “pathogenic” bacteria/”bad” cholesterol), is defined by an accumulation of yeast overgrowth (diet related) within the gut.
The Five Dietary Hazards:
1. Casein
2. Gluten
3. Trans Fats
4. Iodized Salts
5. Processed Sugars
Gluten & Casein are both insoluble in the gut (incompatible with the human digestive system). both contain ‘glutamine and proline rich 33-mer peptides‘; identified as a primary source of dietary intolerance within the body.’
Note: Celiac Disease (CD) & Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) are virtually indistinguishable conditions associated with gut deficiency; and therefore, by extension, precursors to/role players in the onset of Early Onset Autism.
In the case of children coping with Autism the task of restoring their full capacity is definitely more prolonged than for some, given the complex array of symptoms. The synergy of immunological, neurological & physiological well being hangs in the balance.
In the end, we have to go back to the beginning, to the source of neurological & neuro-developmental trauma, in order to fully unravel the damage done to these individuals.
Consider the analogy of a child, having stumbled into a cave, lost and in the dark, finding themselves further disoriented, ill-equipped to navigate their way out. Our role as parents is to help guide them through that cavernous lair of narrow passage ways, back to the mouth of the cave.
Until your child takes proactive steps to solve the Gut problem, they will invariably continue to endure sub-standard health (auto-immune dysfunction) – everything from a deterioration in cell viability/macro-degeneration of cells (Mitochondria related), loss of bone density/arthritis, compromised immunity (susceptibility to Influenza, Colds, chronic headaches etc), persistent Thyroid dysfunction (Liver related), food allergies, low energy (Chronic Fatigue Syndrome), memory loss, depression/anger, weight gain/loss, hair loss, anemia, eczema, Respiratory/Circulatory issues. Bowel distress/Inflammatory Bowel Disease (varying degrees of Crones Disease or Colitis), including a host of crippling neurological & neuro-developmental factors.
We must look to children with Autism to determine the full extent of “vaccine toxicity” derived nutrient deficiencies incurred in the body. All vaccine damaged babies or infants, those fortunate enough to miss the onslaught of Early Onset Autism, still incur significant damage to these interdependent storehouses of vitamins/antioxidants & trace minerals (coupled with the body’s inability to break them down accordingly).
The end result of this prolonged deficit, a cascading breakdown ensues at the cellular level – Mitochondrial & Methylation-related dysfunction, all factors primarily having been initially triggered by a vaccine-derived neurotoxic breach of “electrical grid” nerve center.
In many ways, the key to decoding Autism and halting this epidemic once and for all, is time.
As any parent with an Autistic child knows, gaining a foothold on Regressive Autism requires tremendous patience, and tangible results aren’t always immediate. But there is a way out of this convoluted maze, a route which ensures lasting change, given a concerted effort. Our children are depending on us to take charge, and lead the way home.
See: VRM: The Autism Report
See: VRM: Measles Report
See: VRM: Vaccines Do Contain Aborted Human Fetal Tissue
See: VRM: The Rise of Mutagenic Viruses
VRM: VRM: Ebola Report https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=13982
VRM: Worldwide Autism Study Direct link to study: http://study.vaccineresistancemovement.org/
VRM: The Problem With Vaccines Part 1 https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=488
VRM: Vaccine Clinic – A Concise Compendium To The Problem With Vaccineshttps://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=6278
VRM: The Problem With Vaccines Part 2 – Synergistic Effect of Heavy Metal Toxicity On The Body https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=6097
VRM: The Problem With Vaccines Part 3 – Synthetic Genomics & The Death Of Natural Immunity https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=6880
VRM: A Concise Compendium To The Problem With Vaccines Part 3 – Synthetic Genomics & The Death Of Natural Immunity https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=7283
VRM: The Problem With Vaccines Part 4 – Primary Aspects of Vaccine Toxicity Affecting Body https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=8787
VRM: The Problem With Vaccines Part 5A – Detoxification & Restoration of the Body https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=8836
VRM: The Problem With Vaccines Part 5B – Detoxification & Restoration of the Body https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=8847
VRM: PCV Vaccine Exposed – Breeding Ground For Staphylococcus Aureus https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=9431
VRM: Pandemic Preparedness & The Dark Agenda Ahead https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=9460
VRM: Polio – United Nations & The Great Cull https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=4916
VRM: The Re-emergence of Polio in The Third World (compliments of the World Health Organization & Bill Gates) https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=10091
VRM: Weaponized Polio & The African Green Monkey Conundrum https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=10727
VRM: Mandatory Vaccinations – How They Will Be Implemented https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=11806
VRM: The Confidential Case-files of GlaxoSmithKline – Cover-up, Deferral & Denial of Responsibility for Vaccine-related Premature Deaths https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=12242
VRM: Primary Reasons Not To Get The Flu Shot https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=12642
VRM: The Flu Report https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=9226
VRM: Vaccine Ingredients https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=979
VRM: Safe Alternatives to Vaccineshttps://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=662%EF%BB%BF
VRM: Family Charts Gradual Decline Of Daughter https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=3156
VRM: Health Matters Part 1 https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=6719
VRM: Health Matters Part 2https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=6746%EF%BB%BF
VRM: Alternative Cancer Cures That Work https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=3729
VRM: Pregnancy Tipshttps://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=3270
VRM: H1N1 Shot Reactions – Miscarriages https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=943
VRM: The Vanishing Sperm Count https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=4639
VRM: H1N1 Vaccine Surplus From 2009 Reveals Growing Distrust of Gov’t & WHO https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=4969
VRM: Flu Death Statistics – WHO & The Big Lie https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=784
VRM: Vaccine Industry Deception, Propaganda & Media Collusionhttps://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=197
VRM: Birth of Medical & Scientific Dictatorship – Future Scenarios https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=997
VRM: H1N1 Bio-weaponry Incorporated https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=884
VRM: Aids & The WHO Connection – Criminal Intenthttps://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=1749
VRM: Morgellons Syndrome & Chemtrails https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=839
VRM: Council On Foreign Relations 10/16/09- Major Influence on Government Vaccine Policyhttps://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=1880
VRM: Closed Door CDC Meeting Reveals Industry Cover-up Of Heavy Metal Toxicity In Vaccines https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=5935
VRM: The Rockefeller Foundation Drafts A Post-Pandemic Scenario https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=5102
VRM: World Health Organization & Vaccine Manufacturers Implicated In Massive H1N1 Financial Scam Involving Kickbacks & Cover-upshttps://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=4610
VRM Live – 01/28/11: Vaccine Resistance Movement founder Joel Lord discusses Synthetic Genomics, cloned cell vaccine technology & the death of natural immunity, gutter journalism & Dr. Wakefield’s imminent vindication with ‘Truth to Power’ host Paul Mabelis. http://www.blogtalkradio.com/empradio/2011/01/28/truth-to-power-thursday
VRM Live – 11/04/10: Vaccine Resistance Movement founder Joel Lord lays out the whole vaccine process with Paul Mabelis; including heavy metal toxicity, synergy, pregnancy issues & the basic principles of natural health at risk. http://www.blogtalkradio.com/show.aspx?userurl=empradio&year=2010&month=11&day=05&url=truth-to-power-thursday
VRM Live – 09/24/10: Vaccine Resistance Movement Founder Joel Lord & activist/radio host Jesse Calhoun lay it all out tonite. Topics include the VRM Worldwide Autism Study, Scientific/Medical dictatorship, Natural Rights & Vaccine Industry fraud exposed. Special thanks to host Paul Mabelis. http://www.blogtalkradio.com/empradio/2010/09/24/truth-to-power-thursday
If you appreciate the efforts to bring this information forward do consider making a donation. Any amount, no matter how small will help enable me to carry on this invaluable research. See Paypal link on the VRM website (click on ‘Donate’ tab in upper right corner). Thank you all.
2 Responses to “VRM: The Autism Report Part 2 – Missing Links”
Log in to Reply
VRM: Vaccine Toxicity – Middle Ear Infections and Autism « Vaccine Resistance Movement on February 12, 2017
[…] an overabundance of Glutamate production in the system. In another recent article titled ‘VRM: The Autism Report Part 2 – Missing Links’, I also described a sinkhole effect: where-by Vaccine-injured children are typically unable to […]
Log in to Reply
VRM: Mycoplasma – Rogue Pathogen in Vaccines « Vaccine Resistance Movement on April 26, 2016
[…] VRM: The Autism Report Part 2 – Missing Links https://vaccineresistancemovement.org/?p=14478 […]
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Your donations are greatly appreciated!
The Vaccine Resistance Movement is strictly non-profit for a reason. We do not require monthly or annual fees from subscribers, as do many similar sites, primarily because I recognize the importance of sharing this critical information freely and openly, without advertising revenues. Your generous support is needed, however, to help fuel this entire grassroots operation and to move forward with our bolder initiatives. Please click on 'Donate Online' button below. A special thanks to those of you who have contributed along the way. VRM
Vaccine Resistance Movement welcomes any new subscribers!
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
AFFIDAVIT: Dr. Len Horowitz Pandemic Charges Against Rockefellers, Rupert Murdoch, CDC & WHO
AFFIDAVIT: Dr. Leonard Horowitz Files Pandemic Charges Against Rockefeller Trust – Damning report implicating the WHO, CDC, Rockefeller Trust, Murdoch & other moguls in attempted genocide
ALTERNATIVE CANCER TREATMENT IN GERMANY - Hyperthermia kills cancer cells by the millions.
ALTERNATIVE CANCER TREATMENT IN GERMANY ‘Hyperthermia kills cancer cells by the millions. Any cancer cells that remain are so weak that another therapy such as Vitamins C & D can kill them off.'
ALUMINUM IN VACCINES: 10 - 20 Times More Toxic Than Mercury By Ratio
Average 2-400 micrograms per vaccine, over a milligram of Aluminum used. Multiple vaccines are far worse, over a 1000 micrograms on average for a triple set shot.
ASPIRIN IMPAIRS THYROID FUNCTION - depletes the Vitamin C levels of the white bloods & lymphocytes in the lungs & suppresses the fever (a critical stage in getting well again)
Tylenol uses up glutathione stores & metabolites of acetaminophen accumulates causing direct damage to liver cells. GSH essential for function of gut, maintains Vit C & E, maintains mitochondrial integrety, protects against intracellular viruses
BLACK LUNG INFECTION IN UKRAINE: 2009 - Mysterious component of flu bypasses trachea, targets lungs directly
“All victims of the virus in Bukovyna (22 people at the age of 20-40) died not from bilateral pneumonia, as was previously thought, but as a result of viral distress syndrome, i.e the total destruction of the lungs."
BOGUS PROBE PART OF FURTHER H1N1 SHOT CARNAGE COVER-UP
'The provincial health ministry (Ontario, Canada) is investigating 17 cases in which people fell seriously ill after the receipt of the H1N1 flu vaccine.'
BULLETIN #47: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION – T Cell System Disrupter Virus Linked to Aids Part 1
BULLETIN #47/1972: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION requested a virus that would selectively destroy the human T Cell System 'to observe results' * Determining factor most common in Aids victims
BULLETIN #47: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION – T Cell System Disrupter Virus Linked to Aids Part 2
Virus was distributed in conjunction with a Nationwide vaccination program "to observe the results". This coincided precisely with the extensive Small Pox vaccination program in central Africa – shortly preceding the outbreak of Aids in Africa,
CANADIAN STUDY: TAKING SEASONAL FLU SHOT WILL LEAVE YOUR MUCH MORE SUSCEPTIBILE TO SWINE FLU
'Estimates indicated that prior receipt of 2008–09 TIV (trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine aka regular flu shot) was associated with increased risk of medically attended pH1N1 illness during the spring–summer 2009′
CDC Recommended Immunization Schedule for Persons Aged 0 Through 6 Years—United States • 2011
This is a roadmap to eventual Autism for 1 in 50 precious children out there. Acute exposure to heavy metals can trigger auto-immune disorders including Autism, Schizophrenia, ALS, Lupus, Parkinson’s & Alzheimer’s Disease, cognitive disfunction
CDC Recommended Immunization Schedule for Persons Aged 7 Through 18 Years—United States • 2011
"All girls and women age 11 through 26 years (as young as 9) should be vaccinated with 3 doses of HPV vaccine, given over a 6-month period. Boys and men age 11 through 26 years (for genital warts)
CHICKEN POX VACCINE LINKED TO SHINGLES EPIDEMIC
New research published in the International Journal of Toxicology by Gary S. Goldman, Ph.D., reveals high rates of shingles (herpes zoster) in Americans since the government's 1995 recommendation that all children receive chicken pox vaccine.
COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS CONTROLS GOVERMENT POLICY ON VACCINES
10/16/09 – “I think we’re all aware the anti vaccine movement is having a field-day on the internet causing reductions in vaccine uptake. Appears to be a pretty unholy alliance of the ultra right & ultra left working together in a Hitler/Stalin pact.
DENVER HAS LAUNCHED A 5 SHOT VACCINE PROGRAM WITH A FAT GRANT FROM THE CDC
Unsuspecting youth exposed to toxic levels of heavy metal, formaldehyde & other insidious additives. A virtual guarantee of severe neurological damage & allergy type infections. Many of these children will not be able to have kids of their own now
DR. ANDREW WAKEFIELD COUNTERS ATTACKS FROM VACCINE LOBBY
"At its heart, the GMC hearing has been about the protection of MMR vaccination policy. The case has been driven by an agenda to crush dissent that in my opinion serves the government & pharmaceutical industry – not the welfare of children."
DYNCORP: OWNERS OF SWINE FLU SV40 DISEASED GREEN MONKEY KIDNEY METHOD PATENT - Dirty Track Record
DynCorp, it turns out, is a one of the top private military contractors working for the U.S. government. Guilty of trafficking in under-age sex slaves in Bosnia & poisoning rural farmers in Ecuador with its aerial spraying of Colombian coca crops.
EUGENICS IN US: 1910's - ILLINOIS MENTAL INSTITUTION FED ITS PATIENTS MILK FROM TUBERCULAR COWS. 30-40% ANNUAL DEATH RATE RESULTED
Lincoln officials claimed that their normal pasteurization “by an experienced employee” killed the tuberculosis bacteria. 'Windows were deliberately left open and unscreened, allowing drafts and infecting flies to swarm over patients.'
EUGENICS MANDATE: OBAMA'S SCIENCE ZSAR JOHN HOLDREN CALLS FOR FORCED STERIZATION
EUGENICS: “A program of sterilizing women after their second or third child, despite the relatively greater difficulty of the operation than vasectomy, might be easier to implement than trying to sterilize men.” Ecosc
FOOD & DRUG ADMIM ADMITS VACCINES ARE DIRECTLY LINKED TO AUTISM IN CHILDREN
“Children are 27 times more likely to develop autism with exposure to mercury-containing vaccines.” Food & Drug Administration
GARDASIL CARNAGE: INDUSTRY COVER-UP LEAVES PARENTS COLD
Rhonda Renata believes Gardasil caused her daughter Jasmine's death. The 18-year-old died last September 22 at her family home in Upper Hutt, NZ, apparently in her sleep. It was six months since she had received the last of the three injections.
INTERLEUKEIN 2 - Immune System disrupter adjuvant used in Swine Flu Vaccine
INTERLEUKEIN 2: Immune System disrupter adjuvant in Swine Flu Vaccine – IL-2 is the “common denominator” among immune system functions, and can cause severe side effects. IL-2 has been recommended for adjuvants.
MEDIA BEING MUZZLED BY GOVERNMENT AS VACCINE RESISTANCE GROWS
“There are groups out there that insist that vaccines are responsible for a variety of problems despite all scientific evidence to the contrary. We have reached out to media outlets to try to get them to not give the views of these people equal weight…
MERCURY STUDY FROM 2008 VERIFIES LINK TO AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER
Emerging evidence supports the theory that some autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) may result from a combination of genetic/biochemical susceptibility. The overwhelming preponderance of the evidence favours acceptance that Hg exposure is capable of causing
MISCARRIAGES: THE REAL LEGACY OF VACCINES - Thimerosal Mercury absorbed into Placenta, causes fetal trauma
Mercury is such a fine neuro-toxin it gets absorbed into the Placenta thereby exposing the fetus, regardless of which trimester, to trauma and unfortunately in many cases, death.
MMR COMBO VACCINE PRAISED BY CDC ADVISOR
“There are some parents out there that want a delayed vaccine schedule. They want the vaccines spread out over a longer period of time and not so many at once. That’s a lot of hooey. Alternative schedules have never been proven to be superior.”
MODEL STATE EMERGENCY HEALTH POWERS ACT: Article V1 Section 603 -
'During the public health emergency the public health authority may isolate or quarantine an individual or groups of individuals. This includes individuals or groups who have not been vaccinated.'
MYCOPLASMA: The Origin of Swine Flu & Spanish Influenza
1904: US LABORATORY OF HYGIENE – Used Mycoplasma to Cause Epidemic in Horses 1910 – Again, this time to Cause epidemic in Fowl & Birds.
NEW "GOLDEN ERA" FOR THE VACCINE INDUSTRY
"Malaria. Tuberculosis. Alzheimer's disease. AIDS. Pandemic flu. Genital herpes. Urinary tract infections. Grass allergies. Traveler's diarrhea. You name it, the pharmaceutical industry is working on a vaccine to prevent it."
ROCKEFELLERS FINANCED VACCINE BIO-WEAPON RESEARCH: 1942 - Birth of H1N1 Virus-bacterium Hybrid
“We have found that the combined infection of embryos with swine influenza virus and H. infl~nzae suis produces a highly lethal infection, while neither one alone kills many embryos. Combined infection has a selective destructive effect on embryo lungs.”
SHINGLES VACCINE: ANOTHER TOXIC MISTAKE
A 2002 study pointed out that vaccinating children against chickenpox increases the risk that adults develop shingles. By attempting to eliminate an essentially harmless childhood disease another unnecessary disaster is being created.
SWINE FLU VACCINE CARNAGE: H1N1 Vaccine Leaves A Devastating Toll
'At one school in Sweden where the students were mass vaccinated with the Pandemrix H1N1 swine flu vaccine, 130 of the 233 students at the school called in sick the day after the vaccination.'
SWINE FLU VIRUS TO REPLACE 2010-2011 SEASONAL FLU SHOT
“The recommendation to put the pandemic virus in the upcoming vaccine really means that this has been a dominant virus, and it is expected that it will continue to be a very significant virus circulating around the world." Keiji Fukuda, WHO advisor
THE DARK SIDE OF THE ROUTINE NEWBORN VITAMIN K SHOT
Apart from the trauma inflicted on a newborn of getting the shot the amount of vitamin K injected into newborns is 20,000 times the needed dose. The injection may also contain preservatives that can be toxic for your baby’s delicate, young immune system.
THE SMOKING GUN OF AIDS: 1971 FLOWCHART / FEDERAL VIRUS PROGRAM COMMISSION
Coordinates over 20,000 scientific papers and fifteen years of progress reports of a secret federal virus development program. * Epidemiology identical match to research logic
TOWN HALL: HARD TALK ON VACCINATIONS – VRM Founder Joel Lord exposes the Swine Flu Pandemic fraud
HARD TALK ON VACCINATIONS – VRM founder Joel Lord exposes the swine flu pandemic fraud, vaccine dangers, the globalist agenda & new religion of mass vaccinations.
TOWN HALL: VRM - Keynote speaker Dr. Christopher Shaw on the hazards of Aluminum in vaccines & GSK's Canadian H1N1 Vaccine Arepanrix
Dr. Christopher Shaw is a Neuro-Scientist at the University of British Columbia, (UBC) in Canada, and has published 2 peer reviewed studies which indicate that aluminum and squalene adjuvants in vaccines are causing neurological damage and auto-immune dis
TWO HEALTHY WOMEN COME DOWN WITH GUILLAINE-BARRE SYNDROME FROM THE SAME DOCTOR'S OFFICE, SAME VACCINE BATCH
'Two residents of Markham in Ontario, Canada have been diagnosed with the debilitating nerve disease Guillain-Barré Syndrome, after both taking the H1N1 flu shot in the same doctor's office just two days apart. Donna Hartlen, a 39-year-old mother
UNUSED H1N1 VACCINE SUPPLY TO BE SHIPPED TO THE THIRD WORLD
'Officials are in discussion with manufacturer GSK over contracts for remaining doses purchased by the UK. Options include selling surplus vaccine and donating it to poorer countries but a stockpile will remain in place.'
USC Sec. 1524/TITLE 50 – WAR AND NATIONAL DEFENSE: CHAPTER 32 (CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WARFARE PROGRAM)
The Secretary of Defense may enter into agreements with Secretary of Health & Human Services to provide support for vaccination programs in the US through use of the excess peacetime biological weapons defense capability of the Dep't of Defence.
VACCINE RESISTANCE MOVEMENT PETITION: A UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF RESISTANCE TO MANDATORY VACCINATION - preemptive Class Action Lawsuit
PLEASE SIGN THIS CRITICAL & HISTORIC PETITION: A UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF RESISTANCE TO MANDATORY VACCINATIONS – a preemptive Class Action Lawsuit to be served in the event our inalienable rights to choose are forsaken.
WHO PANDEMIC PROCEDURES - ‘It may be necessary to overrule existing (individual) human rights...enforcement of quarantine (overruling individual freedom of movement), compulsory vaccination...'
'During a pandemic, it may be necessary to overrule existing legislation or (individual) human rights. Examples are the enforcement of quarantine (overruling individual freedom of movement), use of privately owned buildings for hospitals, off-license
WHO: MOCK UP VACCINES BEING USED TO SPREAD LAB PRODUCED UNTESTED VIRUSES ON THE POPULATION - ‘Ways were sought to shorten the time between emergence of pandemic virus and availability of vaccines.'
'Mock-up vaccines contain an active ingredient for an influenza virus that has not circulated recently in human populations and thus mimics the novelty of a pandemic virus.'
WILLOWBROOK STATE SCHOOL FOR MENTALLY CHALLENGED/196O's - Students forcibly injected with cancerous Hep B shots. Thousands infected, hundreds died.
Dr. Saul Krugman began to inoculate hundreds of mentally retarded children at Willowbrook with these cancer viruses for the purpose of testing these viruses on human beings and developing hepatitis B vaccines.
Donate