Skin lightening under fire as Indians seek whiter shade of pale – Asian Weekly
Saturday, April 20, 2019
Latest:
Man who sold stolen high value watches jailed
Six years’ imprisonment for man who intended to terrorist group
Pakistan High Commission celebrates country’s ICC Champions Trophy success
Pharmacist jailed for drugs offences
Men jailed following brutal axe gang murder
Asian Weekly
Britain's Number 1 Asian News Website!
UK
International
Business
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Health
Sports
What’s On
Contact Us
Health International Lifestyle
Skin lightening under fire as Indians seek whiter shade of pale
April 30, 2017 April 30, 2017 ©Reuters 321 Views 0 Comments
Mirror, mirror on the wall – who is the fairest of them all?
The one with the palest skin, of course.
Or that’s the idea behind India’s multibillion-dollar skin lightening industry, with a host of ‘fairness’ products appearing to offer dark-skinned Indians a lighter, fairer, better version of themselves.
Now the industry has come under fire after a popular Bollywood actor lashed out at India’s obsession with fair skin and highlighted a persistent bias against darker faces.
“You have to stop buying into the idea that a particular shade is better than others,” Abhay Deol, an actor known for playing offbeat roles, said on his Facebook page this month.
Deol lambasted his Bollywood peers – including Shah Rukh Khan, John Abraham, Shahid Kapur and Deepika Padukone – for endorsing so-called fairness brands and urged them to stop using their popularity to peddle products he called racist.
“(These) campaigns are blatantly, and sometimes subtly, selling you the idea that whiter skin is better than darker skin,” said Deol.
Not fair
Controversy around ‘fairness’ products has raged for decades, with darker skin shades variously described as “dusky” and “wheatish”, and lighter tones sold as more attractive.
The market – which includes creams, face washes, deodorants, even a vaginal whitener – is estimated to be worth about 270 billion rupees ($4 billion) and is growing at a steady clip.
Unilever Plc’s Hindustan Unilever, Procter &amp; Gamble, Nivea, Garnier and Emami are among those making fairness products.
Hindustan Unilever’s Fair & Lovely, launched in 1975, is India’s best known fairness brand, and claims to be the world’s first of very many skin-lightening creams.
Scientists say some contain harmful bleaching ingredients.
The World Health Organization banned the active ingredients – hydroquinone and mercury – from unregulated skin products.
Research firm Centre for Science and Environment said in a 2014 study that nearly half the creams it tested in India contained mercury, which is “completely illegal and unlawful”.
A spokeswoman for Hindustan Unilever declined comment on the controversy.
Caste at root of racism
Some activists link the bias to an entrenched caste system, where higher-caste Brahmins generally have lighter skin.
In a country where arranged marriages are still the norm, matrimonial ads consistently describe a woman’s complexion, and dark-skinned women often pay a higher dowry, activists say.
Bullying and taunting of dark-skinned girls and women is common, while dark-skinned actors complain of fewer roles.
Advertising campaigns for various brands have typically depicted women – and increasingly men – as winning better jobs and partners, thanks to the fairness creams.
But Kiran Khalap, co-founder of brand consultancy Chlorophyll in Mumbai, said the adverts were not to blame.
“Our obsession with fair skin didn’t come from HUL or Emami: it’s a deep-seated cultural bias that equates being fair with being superior,” he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
“When a demand for a product exists, a manufacturer will cater to that demand. And people will buy that product, even without a Shah Rukh or a John Abraham telling them to buy.”
Dark is beautiful
Nor is India alone in buying into the ‘fairness’ dream.
Similar products are on sale in Southeast Asia, the Middle East and in parts of Africa, although India, with its population of 1.3 billion people, is a prized consumer market.
Ivory Coast and Ghana have banned cosmetics containing hydroquinone, which critics say can cause cancer. A similar ban exists in Japan, South Africa and the European Union.
Nivea recently pulled an ad in the Middle East with the tagline ‘White is Purity’ after it was slammed as racist.
Advocacy group Women of Worth launched a ‘Dark is Beautiful’ campaign in 2009 with the tagline ‘Stay unfair, stay beautiful,’ to fight the “toxic belief that a person’s worth is measured by the fairness of their skin”.
Members of India’s upper house have called for a ban on advertisements for fairness products.
There has also been legal action.
A Delhi consumer court said in 2015 said Emami’s advertisements for Fair and Handsome were a misrepresentation of the product’s effectiveness.
Emami has appealed the verdict. A spokeswoman for the company declined comment.
Just last week, Times of India, the country’s biggest English-language daily, ran a message about its popular matrimonial ads.
“Don’t you think it’s unfair to ask a girl to be fair and beautiful?” the message read. “Henceforth, we hope that matrimonial ads will inspire people to choose girls based on their education rather than only their looks.”
But filmmaker Ram Subramanian wants action, not words, and his video on the topic has been viewed almost 3 million times.
“Once upon a time slavery was acceptable, the caste system was acceptable, until someone said they were not,” he said.
“I want the government to ban these products because they cause so much damage,” he said.
($1 = 64.1126 Indian rupees)
Report: Rina Chandran, Photograph: Jayanta Dey
©Thomson Reuters Foundation
← Land protests heat up as Indian states clamp down
Mayor proclaims ‘London is Open’ for sports after Joshua’s Wembley victory →
You May Also Like
Defence Secretary visits India for strategic dialogue
April 11, 2017 Chris Chanderpaul 0
Saliha Mahmoud-Ahmed crowned Masterchef 2017
May 12, 2017 Kiran Sharma 0
Transforming India through educating girls
January 25, 2017 Chris Chanderpaul 0
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your e-mail address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Movie Trailer
Breaking News
Man who sold stolen high value watches jailed
June 23, 2017 Jake Khan No Comments
Six years’ imprisonment for man who intended to terrorist group
June 23, 2017 Jake Khan No Comments
Pakistan High Commission celebrates country’s ICC Champions Trophy success
June 21, 2017 Faria Malik-Khan No Comments
Pharmacist jailed for drugs offences
June 20, 2017 Jake Khan No Comments
Men jailed following brutal axe gang murder
June 16, 2017 Jake Khan No Comments
Man jailed for violent kidnapping
June 15, 2017 Jake Khan No Comments
HealthView All
Health Sports
Yuvraj Singh gives motivational talk at London charity event
June 14, 2017 Kiran Sharma 0
Ace Cricketer Yuvraj Singh attended a charity event hosted by Mackenzie Homes to support his NGO – The YouWeCan Foundation. The event
Health
CCTV at train stations could be used to identify people at risk of attempting suicide
May 3, 2017 Kiran Sharma 0
Health International Lifestyle
Skin lightening under fire as Indians seek whiter shade of pale
April 30, 2017 ©Reuters 0
Health UK
MP shows support for efforts to tackle Sepsis
April 29, 2017 Bharat Desai 0
Health Lifestyle
Eating disorders are affecting more UK women in their 40s and 50s says study
April 21, 2017 Kiran Sharma 0
Popular
Recent
Comment
Man who sold stolen high value watches jailed
June 23, 2017 Jake Khan No Comments
Sri Lanka Foreign Minister meets Boris Johnson for bilateral discussions
January 13, 2017 Fernando Da Silva No Comments
Transforming India through educating girls
January 25, 2017 Chris Chanderpaul No Comments
British Asian Trust gala dinner raises £850,000
February 3, 2017 Faria Malik-Khan No Comments
Leading UK law firm and university host delegates from the Indian National Bar Association (INBA)
February 13, 2017 Kiran Sharma No Comments
Man who sold stolen high value watches jailed
June 23, 2017 Jake Khan
Six years’ imprisonment for man who intended to terrorist group
June 23, 2017 Jake Khan
Pakistan High Commission celebrates country’s ICC Champions Trophy success
June 21, 2017 Faria Malik-Khan
Pharmacist jailed for drugs offences
June 20, 2017 Jake Khan
Men jailed following brutal axe gang murder
June 16, 2017 Jake Khan
No comments
Advertise Here
Random Picks
Armed robber who targeted taxi drivers is locked up
April 21, 2017 Jake Khan No Comments
Reception to launch the India-UK Year of Culture 2017
February 27, 2017 Bharat Desai No Comments
Ilford man jailed for manslaughter
June 5, 2017 Jake Khan No Comments
Being Human announces its Spring Summer 2017 campaign with Salman Khan and Amy Jackson
April 4, 2017 Suzy Bansal No Comments
Appeal following sexual assault in Uxbridge
May 25, 2017 Jake Khan No Comments
TravelView All
Business Lifestyle Travel What's On
Glorious India – The Largest Indian Expo in USA
March 8, 2017 Kiran Sharma 0
Glorious India, the Mega Trade Expo, is scheduled to take place on 27-28 May 2017 in New Jersey, USA. The event is
Random
Let a stranger select your online profile pic
April 19, 2017 Kiran Sharma No Comments
MEP recognised for contributions in Asia and Europe
April 24, 2017 Bharat Desai No Comments
Appeal following sexual assault in Uxbridge
May 25, 2017 Jake Khan No Comments
India High Commissioner presents his credentials to Queen
February 15, 2017 Fernando Da Silva No Comments
India and UK commit to strengthen engagement further in Renewable Energy
April 26, 2017 Bharat Desai No Comments
Asylum seeker batters wife with hammer for not cooking dinner
May 2, 2017 Jake Khan No Comments
MusicView All
Entertainment Music
Kapil Srivastava launches guitar world record attempt with Tere Mere Honton Pe
April 6, 2017 Suzy Bansal 0
Entertainment Music
HarperCollins acquires world rights for Zakir Hussain book
March 29, 2017 Suzy Bansal 0
About Us
The Asian Weekly is Britain's most popular Asian news site campaigning on behalf of the noble community it serves.
Useful Links
India High Commission
Pakistan High Commission
Bangladesh High Commission
Sri Lanka High Commission
Support Groups
Asian Women’s Resource Centre
South Asian Refuge
Saheli Asian Womens Project
Asian Women Cancer Group
South Asian Health Foundation
Naye Subah | Services for Asian Women with Mental Health Difficulties
Southall Black Sisters
Asian People’s Disability Alliance
Karma Nirvana – Supporting victims and survivors of forced marriages & honour crimes
Contact
The Asian Weekly
Email: newsdesk@asianweekly.co.uk
Website: www.asianweekly.co.uk
Copyright © 2019 Asian Weekly. All rights reserved.
This website and its content is copyright of Ethnic News Group.