Move over carrots - collard greens is where eye health is at! | Field To Meal
How it works
The Menu
Meal Bags
Market
Our Story
Blog
Contact Us
Move over carrots - collard greens is where eye health is at!
August 2, 2017
It would seem to make sense that along with a myriad of diseases and deficiencies that are borne out of poor diet, eye health would be no different.
Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD) is the biggest eye issue and it affects 5% of Americans as they get older, much of it preventable. This disease seriously compromises our ability to perform everyday tasks like read and drive. Without detection and treatment it can ultimately lead to blindness. Now no doubt getting old is not all it is cracked up to be, however at least in this case AMD need not be suffered unnecessarily.
‘Eat your carrots and you will always have good eye-sight’ Is there any truth behind this or was it just spectacular marketing by someone who was keen to promote carrots. The answer is both, although far from the panacea to your eye health woes carrots do play a small part in ensuring your eyes remain healthy and functional for as long as possible.
Carrots do indeed contain the magic ingredients lutein and zeaxanthin which work together to build up pigment in the centre of the retina thus protecting it from the harmful effects of ultraviolet rays and seriously reducing our risk to eye issues like AMD. However, perhaps lesser known, (let’s put it down to some less effective propaganda) it is in fact leafy greens such as spinach, kale, collard greens, swiss chard and lettuce which contain higher mixes of both these minerals.
As if we weren’t aware a regular mix of these vegetables preferably fresh and organic plays a huge role in our overall health, not least our eyes. Hit up your local farmers market or utilize a service like meal planner FieldtoMeal.com to make sure you and your family are getting your quota of vision friendly goodness.
Made my first meal today! Gotta say I'm in love with Field to Meal! The recipe was easy to follow & didn't take that long to make! Yum!
Thanks Field to Meal!
Katrina Arce
Like Us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Instagram
Share with your Friends
Sign Up for the Latest Updates
Enter
Email is required.
Email is not valid.
Call Us (972) 921-6262
orders@fieldtomeal.com
© Field To Meal. 2016
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Site Credits
Login to Field to Meal
Welcome to Field to Meal.
Email is required.
Email is not valid.
Password is required.
Remember Me
Forgot Password?
LoginLoading...
Don’t Have an Account, Sign Up!
Forget Your Password
Don’t worry, you can reset it. It’s easy.
Email is required.
Email is not valid.
Request Reset LinkLoading...
Thank You!
This item has been added to your bag
Continue Shopping
Checkout
Thank You!
This item has been added to your bag
Continue Shopping
Go To Your Account
Newsletter
Thank you for signing up for our newsletter.