Natural Health, Issue #002 -- The Best Way to Eat Carrots
Back to Back Issues Page
Natural Health, Issue #002 -- The Best Way to Eat Carrots
February 25, 2011
Hello,
How to Maximize the Benefits of Carrots
Did your mom ever tell you to eat your carrots because they are good for your eyes? Moms know best. The beta carotene in carrots is converted into vitamin A, which protects vision, especially night vision. It also helps prevent macular degeneration and cataracts.
Beta carotene is a powerful anti oxidant that boosts the immune system and fights against the free radicals that cause cancer. It also reduces the incidence of strokes. The high fiber content in carrots help lower blood cholesterol.
The Best Ways to Eat Carrots
Carrots are high in vitamin C when eaten raw. However, here's an interesting fact that most people don’t know...
Beta carotene is a fat soluble compound. In order to absorb it you need to eat carrots with some healthy fat or oil. I usually finely grate raw carrots and add a home-made salad dressing made with extra virgin olive oil. A reduced fat salad dressing won't work. Alternatively you can eat carrots with hummus or some healthy dip. An avocado slice would be another good option because it is a natural, healthy fat.
Cooking carrots breaks down the cell walls releasing even more of the beta carotene, but do not overcook.
For those who enjoy juicing, more of the beta carotene is absorbed with carrot juice because when eating raw carrots the fiber continues right through the body, taking some of the beta carotene along with it!
Avoid prepared baby carrots as they are rinsed with chlorine or chlorine dioxide.
Enjoy organic carrots. They are sweeter, inexpensive, and yes, your mom was right, they are very good for you and your eyes.
I Welcome Your Feedback
In my last e-zine I wrote about how every time you heat oil in a frying pan you are turning it into a trans fat. Check back issues here.
A few people asked about other options. For a healthier alternative, use a little water to sauté onions and vegetables over very low heat.
If you like this e-zine, feel free to forward it to a friend.
If a friend DID forward this to you and if you like what you read, please subscribe by visiting... www.bodytypology.com
To your natural health!
Sue-Anne
Back to Back Issues Page