Aspartame Danger: The Sweetest Poison | Barton Publishing Blog
Barton Publishing Blog
Back to our website
View a list of health topics
Abs
Acid reflux
ADHD ADD
Aging
Allergies
Alzheimer’s
Amanda Box
America
Antioxidants
Anxiety
Arthritis
Asthma
Autism
Back pain
Bad breath
Barton publishing
Big pharma
Bladder
Blood sugar
Bone health
Brain
Breast cancer
Candida
Cardiovascular
Cholesterol
Christmas
Cleanse
Cold and Flu
Curcumin
Cure for cancer
Daily health blog
Daily Superfood Love
Depression
Detox
Diabetes
Diet
Digestion
Dr. saunders
Dr. Scott Saunders
Ebola
Eczema
Energy
Erectile dysfunction
Fat burning
Fatigue
Female hair loss
Fibromyalgia
Gallstones
Gout
Gut health
Health
Hearing
Heart disease
Hemorrhoids
Herpes
High blood pressure
Home Cures Daily
Home cures that work
Home remedies
Honey
Honeycrisp apples
Hormones
Huckabee
Hypertension
Ibs
Immune system
Inflammation
Ischemic colitis
Joe barton
Joint pain
Kidney Stones
Liver
Lyme disease
Memory loss
Mercola
Metabolism
Michael Tyrrell
Migraines
Mineral
Multiple sclerosis
Music
Music therapy
Natural remedy
News
Obesity
Oxygen
Pain relief
Parkinson's
Pets
Pregnancy
Probiotics
Prostate cancer
Recipe
Sinus infection remedy
Skin cancer
Sleep
Stress relief
Stroke
Supplements
Swine flu
Teeth
Testosterone
Thyroid
Tinnitus
Urinary tract infection
Vertigo
Vision
Vitamins
Water
Weight loss
Wholetones
Women hair loss
Yeast Infection
Zika
Aspartame Danger: The Sweetest Poison
24 Sep 2013
Posted by Cheryl in: allergies, anxiety, Brain, breast cancer, Cleanse, daily health blog, depression, diabetes, diet, energy, fatigue, health, inflammation, joint pain, memory loss, migraines, News, obesity, stress relief, weight loss
By Jessica Sanders
Flashy soda advertising campaigns tell you to “Open Happiness.” And despite all the evidence that aspartame can lead to symptoms similar to lupus and multiple sclerosis (and many others), the Coca Cola brand is still working hard to make you believe their drink is safe. Most recently, they put out magazine and television ads declaring scientific studies to support the claims.
However, aspartame is not safe, and there are more than enough studies to prove that this sweet poison is more dangerous than it is delicious. This toxic ingredient can cause a slew of neurological issues, known as aspartame poisoning, and many victims have documented their struggle with it.
The Deadly Cycle
Aspartame, an artificial low-calorie sweetener, consists of three components:
Aspartic acid
Methanol
And phenylalanine
These three chemicals are the deadly trio that makes aspartame dangerous.
Aspartic acid can cause endocrine (hormone) disorders and vision problems. Aspartic acid is a neuroexicter, which means its structure affects the central nervous system. Hyperactivity is stimulated by aspartic acid, so this structure is not good for ADD/ADHD conditions and should be avoided during pregnancy.
Methanol is a dangerous neurotoxin, a known carcinogen, causes retinal damage in the eye, interferes with DNA replication, and causes birth defects.
Not only is methanol known to be a dangerous poisonous, but when aspartame reaches a temperature of 86 degrees or higher the methanol converts to formaldehyde ‑ another known poisonous substance. This transformation causes metabolic acidosis, which turns on your central nervous system, attacking it and every other organ in your body.
The third amino acid, phenylalanine, is often listed under a warning on consumer products. Why? Because it causes mental retardation, seizures, and other brain damage in those that are not able to metabolize this amino acid. Phenylalanine, even if you aren’t extremely sensitive to this chemical, blocks your serotonin and leads to insomnia, severe mood swings, PMS and is generally unsafe for pregnancy.
Now, all this sounds dramatic. And to an extent, it is. The FDA has set an acceptable daily intake (ADI) of aspartame, which is set to be 100 times less than the smallest amount that might be dangerous, according to Cancer.org. This amount is 50mg per kg of body weight.
According to this model, an average adult weighing 165 pounds can have 3,750mg a day, or 21 cans of diet soda.
The following are well-known products that use aspartame:
Diet sodas
Yogurts
Chewing gum
Cooking sauces
Crisps
Tabletop sweeteners
Drink powders
Flavored water
Sugar-free products
Cereals
Bear in mind, the European Union (EU) has set this lower, at 40mg/kg. It’s important to remember that the EU has banned a whole slew of things that FDA still considers safe, like food dyes.
Despite what the FDA and EU say or do, studies prove that aspartame is in fact toxic and dangerous to the health of anyone who has it. In 1996, the FDA used 15 “pivotal” studies to decide whether or not to approve aspartame for use.
One such study was conducted in 1972. The University of Wisconsin gave three groups of monkeys varying doses of aspartame for 52 weeks. After 7 months, the two highest dosage groups started having seizures, some of which were grand mal; these are extremely dangerous because they affect the entire brain. Because of these effects, the low dose group was taken out of the study 200 days before the planned end date.
But that’s not all. Countless websites have recounted the stories of people affected by aspartame poisoning. NaturallySavvy.com interviewed Roseanna Curtale, who drank four diet sodas a day, chewed “sugar-free” gum, and was on the Atkins diet which had her eating sugar-free Jell-O, as well as a plethora of other items with aspartame. She began feeling very tired, followed by extreme insomnia, joint pain, and vision issues, among other symptoms. Eventually, she couldn’t even get out of bed.
After innumerable online searches and visits to the doctor, she figured it out herself. And, after taking aspartame completely out of her diet, the symptoms began to fade. In 4 weeks, she was feeling back to normal. The symptoms she was feeling, and the quick reversal, make a clear case against this toxic ingredient.
92 Symptoms
According to healthy-holistic-living.com, “There are 92 documented symptoms of aspartame poisoning leading to coma and death.” The FDA has documented all symptoms, and within their official report, they explain: “Countless other toxicity effects have been reported to the FDA (DHHS 1995), other independent organizations (Mission Possible 1996, Stoddard 1995), and independent scientists…” You can find the report here.
Because aspartame attacks the nervous system, most of the documented symptoms are neurological. If you think you’re already on the track to aspartame poisoning, you start cleaning your body now with three simple detox methods.
Cold Turkey
This may be the hardest, especially if you’ve been drinking diet coke for many years as Curtale had. However, it’s the best way to rid your body and give it the time it needs to restore itself.
Whole, organic diet
Curtale explained, “What really made the biggest difference in my recovery was nutrition. I started eating whole, organic foods and my body was able to recover.” Focus on shopping in the middle of the grocery store and avoid the perimeter, where most processed food can be found.
Herbs and Supplements
LifeWithNature.com suggests eating the following: magnesium, ginko bilboba, omega-3, selenium, red clover and zinc. These provide nutrients that protect against aspartame damage.
It’s quite clear that FDA is aware of the aspartame dangers, and many have felt the terrible affects, such as fatigue, seizures and joint pain.
You can restore your health by following the aspartame detoxification method. Recovery from aspartame poisoning begins with detoxifying your body of all residual chemical toxins from aspartame’s chemical structure of phenylalanine, aspartic acid and methanol and their toxic by-products.
If not, consider whether your intake of foods with aspartame is worth the potential outcome; aspartame poisoning is real and dangerous. Don’t let it affect you.
Have you experienced any symptoms of aspartame poisoning?
If you like this article, then you’ll love these:
Do Artificial Sweeteners Make You Fat?
Does Diet Soda Make You Gain Weight?
Satisfy Your Sweet Tooth, Without the Sugar
Aspartame Sugar Substitute Toxic
Comments
comments
Cheryl, administrator
Interests:
Tags:
aspartame danger
aspartame poisoning
aspartic acid
damage
dangerous
diet soda
FDA
methanol
neurological
phenylalanine
seizures
symptom
toxin
Add a New Comment
Name
E-Mail (will not be published)
Website
One Comment	you will be the 2nd comment
Carrageenan: Friend or Foe? , December 22, 201410:48 am
[…] signaling. While these experiments were conducted on mice, they suggest that carrageenan may contribute to the development of diabetes in humans, as […]
Like
Prev post	Next post
What’s Hot Right Now
Barton Publishing Blog
PO Box 50, Brandon, SD 57005 USA
support@bartonpublishing.com
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. If you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition, consult your physician before using this product.
Toll Free:
+1.888.356.1146
Outside US:
+1.617.603.0085
Phone Support is available between
9:00 AM and 5:00 PM CST
Copyright 2011 Barton Publishing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms and Conditions
Sitemap