Autism and vaccinations not correlated in 1.3 million kid study
Skip to content
Skeptical Raptor
Stalking pseudoscience in the internet jungle
Menu
About Skeptical Raptor
About this blog
Privacy Policy
Vaccine search engine
Logical fallacies
Appeal to antiquity or tradition – logical fallacies
Appeal to popular belief – logical fallacies
Appeal to consequences – logical fallacies
Appeal to nature – logical fallacies
Appeal to novelty – logical fallacies
Argumentum ad hominem – logical fallacies
Argument from authority or false authority – logical fallacies
Argument from fallacy – logical fallacies
Argument from ignorance – logical fallacies
Bandwagon fallacy – logical fallacies
Cherry picking or quote mining – logical fallacies
Confirmation bias – logical fallacies
Fallacy of composition – logical fallacies
Fallacy of division – logical fallacies
False equivalence and false balance – logical fallacies
False dichotomy – logical fallacies
Fundamental attribution error – logical fallacies
Galileo gambit – logical fallacies
Gambler’s fallacy – logical fallacies
Genetic fallacy – logical fallacies
Gish gallop – logical fallacies
Naturalistic fallacy – logical fallacies
Godwin’s Law
The Nirvana fallacy – logical fallacies
Non sequitur – logical fallacies
Poisoning the well – logical fallacies
Post hoc ergo propter hoc – the cause and effect logical fallacy
Precautionary principle – logical fallacies
Red herring logical fallacies
Shill gambit – logical fallacies
Slippery slope fallacy – logical fallacies
Special pleading – logical fallacies
Strawman argument – logical fallacies
Site map
Posted on 2016/04/17 2017/03/01 by The Original Skeptical Raptor
Autism and vaccinations not correlated in 1.3 million kid study
If you were paying attention to this website over the past couple of weeks, you’d know that the actor Robert De Niro has come out as a vaccine denialist – he thinks that autism and vaccinations are somehow linked, despite the robust and broad scientific evidence that they are not correlated.
The return of this zombie manufactroversy, and De Niro’s involvement, arises from the inclusion of the anti-vaccination fraudumentary, Vaxxed: From Cover-Up to Controversy, at the Tribeca Film Festival. And if you’re unfamiliar with the fraudumentary, it is from the cunning swindler, Mr. Andy Wakefield who attempted to “prove” that autism and vaccinations are linked, by inventing a so-called CDC whistle blower incident and other out right lies. If you are interested, you can read about this movie here, here, and here.
I cannot say this enough – if you know nothing more than just the basics about autism and vaccinations, then your education about it should start with Mr. Wakefield who perpetrated one of the greatest scientific frauds in the history of mankind (and that’s not an exaggeration).
Mr. Wakefield published a paper, subsequently withdrawn by the highly respected medical journal, Lancet, that blamed the MMR vaccine (vaccination for measles, mumps and rubella) for causing autism spectrum disorder (ASD).
Brian Deer, a respected journalist at the medical journal, BMJ, wrote extensively about Wakefield’s despicable deceit which you can read here, here, and here. Basically, Deer uncovered the massive fraud by Wakefield, which included things like working for attorneys who were suing MMR manufacturers, and trying to patent his own version of measles vaccine. Of course, this hasn’t stopped Wakefield from unsuccessfully suing Deer and BMJ several times.
As a result of Wakefield’s , some of the most dangerous outbreaks of vaccine preventable diseases can be laid at the feet of Wakefield, as parents started to refuse to vaccinate their children against these diseases. And of course, billions of dollars, money that could have been spent on actually treating and assisting children with ASD, was spent to investigate this claim, with over 100 peer-reviewed papers completely dismissing and debunking any link between any vaccine and any type of autism.
Let me make this abundantly clear– the vaccines cause autism myth has never been supported by real science even when we looked hard for evidence.
Table of Contents
Autism and vaccinations – huge meta review
So what did the authors find?
The TL;DR version
Key citations
Related
Autism and vaccinations – huge meta review
I wanted to look at one of the best scientific studies to date regarding any links between autism and vaccinations, even though it’s nearly two years old. It should slam the door shut on De Niro’s ignorant commentary about vaccines, and any possibility that Wakefield ever spoke truthfully about the relationship between vaccines and autism.
The research, published in the journal Vaccine, is a meta-analysis of five cohort studies involving 1,256,407 children, and five case-control studies involving 9920 children. As I’ve written before, meta-analyses form the basis, the deep foundation, of the scientific consensus, and they are the highest quality scientific evidence available. This study is like a gigantic clinical trial because it rolls up the highest quality data from those millions of subjects to develop solid conclusions.
So what did the authors find?
• There was no relationship between vaccination and autism (OR: 0.99; 95% CI: 0.92 to 1.06).
• There was no relationship between vaccination and ASD [autism spectrum disorder] (OR: 0.91; 95% CI: 0.68 to 1.20).
• There was no relationship between [autism/ASD] and MMR (OR: 0.84; 95% CI: 0.70 to 1.01).
• There was no relationship between [autism/ASD] and thimerosal (OR: 1.00; 95% CI: 0.77 to 1.31).
• There was no relationship between [autism/ASD] and mercury (Hg) (OR: 1.00; 95% CI: 0.93 to 1.07).
• Findings of this meta-analysis suggest that vaccinations are not associated with the development of autism or autism spectrum disorder.
OR is a statistical term, odds ratio, which provides us with the chances that one property, vaccination, associated with another, in this case, autism.
An odds ratio of around one, means there’s no effect, or no correlation. As the number gets larger than 1.0, then there is statistical evidence that there is an association. On the other hand, OR much less than 1.0 indicates a negative association.
The findings here, most of which were substantially below 1.0, indicate that not only is there no association between autism and vaccination, but one could hypothesize that vaccination reduces the risk of autism.
This is real science Robert De Niro. Robust, high quality, huge numbers evidence.
The TL;DR version
Let’s repeat what the authors of the study wrote:
Findings of this meta-analysis suggest that vaccinations are not associated with the development of autism or autism spectrum disorder. Furthermore, the components of the vaccines (thimerosal or mercury) or multiple vaccines (MMR) are not associated with the development of autism or autism spectrum disorder.
This was a powerful, large, and well analyzed meta-review. It takes all of the evidence and data that had been developed previously, and rolled it up into one huge cohort and clinical trial. And once again, we find that vaccines don’t cause autism.
This isn’t just 12 children, like what Wakefield used in his discredited and retracted research. This is a powerful epidemiological meta-review that completely refutes the link between autism and vaccinations – I hope that anyone considering not vaccinating their child sees this and understands that it’s pretty close to being all you need to know about whether there is a link.
Vaccines save lives. Get your children vaccinated.
Editor’s note: This article was originally published in May 2014. Because of the power of this substantial study and Robert De Niro’s tacit support of Wakefield’s fraudumentary, I decided to re-publish it with a more complete analysis of the original study. This is, without a doubt, one of the most powerful studies into a potential link between autism and vaccinations, and it says there isn’t a link.
Key citations
Retraction–Ileal-lymphoid-nodular hyperplasia, non-specific colitis, and pervasive developmental disorder in children. Lancet. 2010 Feb 6;375(9713):445. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)60175-4. PubMed PMID: 20137807.
Deer B. How the case against the MMR vaccine was fixed. BMJ. 2011 Jan 5;342:c5347. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c5347. PubMed PMID: 21209059.
Deer B. Secrets of the MMR scare . How the vaccine crisis was meant to make money. BMJ. 2011 Jan 11;342:c5258. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c5258. PubMed PMID: 21224310.
Deer B. Secrets of the MMR scare. The Lancet’s two days to bury bad news. BMJ. 2011 Jan 18;342:c7001. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c7001. PubMed PMID: 21245118.
Taylor LE, Swerdfeger AL, Eslick GD. Vaccines are not associated with autism: an evidence-based meta-analysis of case-control and cohort studies. Vaccine. 2014 Jun 17;32(29):3623-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.04.085. Epub 2014 May 9. PubMed PMID: 24814559.
Please help me out by Tweeting out this article or posting it to your favorite Facebook group.
There are two ways you can help support this blog. First, you can use Patreon by clicking on the link below. It allows you to set up a monthly donation, which will go a long way to supporting the Skeptical Raptor
Become a Patron!
Finally, you can also purchase anything on Amazon, and a small portion of each purchase goes to this website. Just click below, and shop for everything.
Related
The Original Skeptical Raptor
Chief Executive Officer at SkepticalRaptor
Lifetime lover of science, especially biomedical research. Spent years in academics, business development, research, and traveling the world shilling for Big Pharma. I love sports, mostly college basketball and football, hockey, and baseball. I enjoy great food and intelligent conversation. And a delicious morning coffee!
CategoriesAndrew Wakefield, Autism, Vaccines Tagsautism spectrum disorders, Brian Deer, case-control study, cohort study, mercury, meta-review, MMR, Robert De Niro, thiomersal, Vaxxed
Post navigation
Previous PostPrevious Anti-vaccine Robert De Niro morphs into Jenny McCarthy
Next PostNext Bernie Sanders views biotechnology – aligned with Republicans
Subscribe to Skeptical Raptor via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 21,410 other subscribers
Email Address
Subscribe
Recent Posts
New measles myth from vaccine denier Sherri Tenpenny – not a disease 2019/04/18
Pro-vaccine commentary from Dorit Rubinstein Reiss – anti-vaxxers whine 2019/04/15
Argument by Vaccine Package Inserts – they’re not infallible 2019/04/11
Mandatory measles vaccinations in New York City– anti-vaccine lies begin 2019/04/10
Anti-vaccine arguments that don’t convince pro-science humans 2019/04/08
Christopher Exley, notorious vaccine pseudoscientist, blocked from funding 2019/04/07
Sheep vaccine study – aluminum adjuvants alter their behavior – RETRACTED 2019/04/05
Vaccine medical exemptions – California legislature aims to curb abuse 2019/04/04
Search for Articles
Custom Search
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Privacy Policy	Proudly powered by WordPress