Pure Krill Oil Review, How does it Work? Fish Oil vs Krill Oil
go-with-us.de – kostenloses Presseportal
Der Presseverteiler für Public Relations und Pressemitteilungen
Pure Krill Oil Review, How does it Work? Fish Oil vs Krill Oil
Abmelden
kostenlose Pressemitteilung
Login Presseportal
Passwort verloren
Passwort zurücksetzen
Registrieren
Pressemeldungen verteilen
Pressemitteilungen
Presseportale / PR-Portale
Presse Know How
Impressum | Presseportal
AGB
aktuell
Spezielle Policen für Reiter Pressehinweis / Bombardier Inc.: Jahreshauptversammlung und Telefonkonferenz
Pure Krill Oil Review, How does it Work? Fish Oil vs Krill Oil
On 25. April 2014, in Medicine Wellness Health, User-Deals, by stevesims
0
There are a lot of products on the market and other dietary supplements and there’s no secret that most of them promise you „miraculous“ results when it comes to your health. However, there has been a lot of research done on the topic of heart health in recent times. Now we can offer you one revolutionary breakthrough that can help improve your heart health, lower your cholesterol and even prevent future heart attacks.
Krill oil has been proven to provide your body with all the essential nutrients and Omega fatty acids it requires to keep a healthy heart. What’s even better is that krill oil is a superior source for these nutrients than fish oil. Let’s take a closer look at what the research has to say about this red hot item – Krill Oil:
Latest Research: Krill Oil Improves Cardiovascular Health
Krill oil is high in Omega-3, Omega-6 and Omega-9 fatty acids, as well as potent antioxidants. One of these antioxidants is Astaxanthin, and it has the role of protecting Omega-3 acids from getting damaged. Astaxanthin can only be found in krill oil. All of these powerful ingredients help to raise good cholesterol and lower bad cholesterol, fight inflammation, balance blood sugar levels and reduce triglyceride levels. It is known that high levels of triglycerides can lead to serious heart disease.
As an added bonus to these amazing heart health benefits, krill oil also helps your brain to support its healthy function and it reduces joint pain and discomfort. Krill oil improves liver function, boosts your immune system and helps you reverse the signs of aging. You can almost get all of these benefits from fish oil too, but krill oil is easier for your body to absorb. This is why you will end up getting more benefits from smaller doses. Actually, another big study that was just done shows that 1000 mg of krill oil has the same effect as 3000 mg of fish oil.
What is Krill Oil and How does it Work?
Krill oil is extracted from krill – a small creature that resembles the shrimp and lives in the Antarctic seas. Because the seas that surround Antarctica are unpolluted and cold, krill oil doesn’t have harmful contaminants and, unlike fish oil, is toxin free. In the end, you get more health benefits with a 60% higher absorption rate.
Since krill live at the bottom of the ocean food chain, they do not consume other organisms that have mercury and other toxins already in them. This is why krill oil doesn’t have contaminants like fish oil does. Scientific studies have confirmed that krill oil users did not complain of any adverse side effects.
Krill Oil vs Fish Oil
Krill may be at the bottom of the food chain, but they are faster and stronger than other sources of Omega 3. What you need to know about fish oil is that fish don’t actually make Omega-3 acids, they eat Omega-3s. One of the things that fish eat for Omega-3 are krill. They eat the krill and after that it gets turned into a pill form. You take that pill, and when it goes into your stomach, Omega 3s are released into your bloodstream.
Fish oil doesn’t release Omega-3 as much and it doesn’t get into the blood cells as much. Omega-3 in krill oil form gets through the blood vessels more readily and into the cells faster. Krill oil capsules have a higher concentration of Omega-3 because you’re actually cutting the middle man – the fish. Fish eat krill and algae to get Omega-3 acids so you’re going directly to the root. Not to mention that you will also get a higher concentration of Omega-3.
Krill oil is stronger than fish oil and it can significantly reduce the risk of heart disease. If you have tried fish oil and other natural supplements, you can leave them behind and confidently try this revolutionary product. Fish oil is good too, but krill oil is the next step in improving your heart health. You absolutely deserve this upgrade and now is the time to treat your heart better.
What to Expect with Pure Omega Krill Oil:
There are many krill oil products on the market, but studies have shown that Pure Omega Krill oil is the purest and most potent product you can get. Here are some benefits that you can experience with Pure Omega Krill Oil:
– Lower blood sugar levels
– Lower LDL (bad) cholesterol
– Higher HDL (good) cholesterol
– Joint pain relief
– More energy throughout the day
– Improved mental focus & memory
– Reduced appearance of wrinkles and aging signs
– Improved skin tone and elasticity
Take Charge of Your Heart Health Today with Pure Omega Krill Oil
You can definitely spend the next week or even the next few hours reading more about Krill Oil, but at some point you will have to take control and make a decision. It is one that could change your life for the better so you do not want to be one of those people who sit on the fence while the opportunity passes. There are no excuses for not being able to do it. You are being informed about an amazing tool that can help you lower your cholesterol and blood sugar levels. When it comes to health, nothing is more important than your heart, so you must take better care of it. Take action to prevent future heart attacks. Don’t wait any longer to try Pure Omega Krill Oil.
Nothing is as serious as a heart attack. Improve your heart health now.
For orders and more information about Pure Omega Krill Oil click here: http://tiny.cc/KrillOil
Tagged with: fish oil • Heart • krill oil • Omega 6 • Omega-3 • omega-9
News zur Online-PR
5 Online-PR und Marketing Erfolgstipps für Gründer und Startups
Online-Reputation-Management: Mit Online-PR und Social Media einen positiven Eindruck hinterlassen
Monitoring für PR-Veröffentlichungen
Branchen-PR: 26 Tipps und Beispiele für kundenorientierte Online-PR
Was ist Online-PR? – Vorteile, Nutzungsmöglichkeiten und Strategien
Kategorien
Advertising Marketing Consulting Market Research
Art Culture
Auto News und Verkehrsnachrichten
Automotive Traffic
Bauen Wohnen Haus Garten Pflege
Business Economy Finances
Communication Media
Computer Information Telecommunications
Computer und Telekommunikation Information
Deutsche Pressemitteilungen
E-Business, Electronic Commerce und Internet News
Electric Electronics
Elektronik, Elektro und Unterhaltungselektronik
Engineering
English Press Releases
Environment Energy
Essen und Trinken, Gastronomie
Familie und Kinder, Kinder Info, Familie & Co
Fashion Trends Lifestyle
Finanz Nachrichten und Wirtschaft Nachrichten
Freizeit Hobby und Freizeit Aktivitäten
Gesellschaft, Politik und Recht
Güterverkehr, Transport und Logistik
Handel und Dienstleistung
Immobilien, Wohnungen, Häuser, Immobilien Zeitung
IT News, NewMedia und Nachrichten zu Software Entwicklung
Karriere, Bildung und Weiterbildung
Kunst und Kultur online
Maschinen und Maschinenbau
Medicine Wellness Health
Medizin und Gesundheit, Fachmediziner und Wellness
Neue Medien und Kommunikation
New Trends online, Mode Trends und Lifestyle
Politics Law Society
Real Estate
Reise Infos und Tourismus Informationen
Science Research Technology
Sport News, Sport Events und Event News
Technik Wissenschaft Forschung
Trading Services
Umweltschutz, Nachhaltigkeit und Energie
User-Deals
Veranstaltungen / Events
Vereine, Sport Vereine und Verbände
Werbung und Marketing, Werbemittel, Marketing Consulting, Marketing Strategie
go-with-us.de – kostenloses Presseportal
Pages
Home
Abmelden
kostenlose Pressemitteilung
Login Presseportal
Passwort verloren
Passwort zurücksetzen
Registrieren
Pressemeldungen verteilen
Pressemitteilungen
Presseportale / PR-Portale
Presse Know How
Impressum | Presseportal
AGB
Stay In Touch
RSS Feed
More
Thanks for dropping by! Feel free to join the discussion by leaving comments, and stay updated by subscribing to the RSS feed.
© 2018 Adenion GmbH Datenschutz