Best Diet for Hemorrhoids - Hemorrhoid Diet Review and Guide for (2018)
Home
Store
Blog
About Us
MY CART 0
Your cart is currently empty.
Home
Store
Blog
Best Hemorrhoid Products
Best Hemorrhoid Cream
Best Hemorrhoid Pills
Best Hemorrhoid Pillows
Best Hemorrhoid Supplement
Best Hemorrhoid Suppository
Best Hemorrhoid Wipes
Hemorrhoids Overview
Hemorrhoid Treatment
Hemorrhoid Relief
Hemorrhoid Causes
Hemorrhoid Bleeding
Hemorrhoid Pain
Hemorrhoid Pregnancy
Hemorrhoid Doctor
Hemorrhoid Symptoms
Hemorrhoid Surgery
Hemorrhoidectomy
Infrared Coagulation Therapy
Laser Hemorrhoid Surgery
Rubber Band Ligation
Sclerotherapy
Home Remedies for Hemorrhoids
Coconut Oil for Hemorrhoids
Epsom Salt for Hemorrhoids
Essential Oils for Hemorrhoids
Tea Tree Oil for Hemorrhoids
Sitz Bath for Hemorrhoids
Witch Hazel for Hemorrhoids
Types of Hemorrhoids
Internal Hemorrhoids
External Hemorrhoids
Prolapsed Hemorrhoids
Thrombosed Hemorrhoids
About Us
Best Diet for Hemorrhoids: Hemorrhoid Diet Review and Guide (2019 Edition)
Posted on 13 April 2018 by Maryanne Johnson
Share this post
Do you have hemorrhoids? If you do, you have probably been told that your diet is causing them.
But…does a poor diet really result in hemorrhoids? What is the best diet for hemorrhoids?
In this post we will share best foods to eat for hemorrhoids and also let you know what foods and drinks to avoid to keep your them away. If your looking for the right hemorrhoid diet, we’ve got your back.
While diet may not always be the reason for your hemorrhoids, in many cases it is responsible.
Here are several foods that make a great diet for hemorrhoids:
Whole grains
Lots of water
Fish
Nuts
Vegetables
Fruits
Quinoa
Lentils
Grilled chicken
Grilled turkey
Remember to eat the grilled chicken and turkey in normal amounts. Overeating meat can back up your digestive system and cause hemorrhoids.
Here are some foods and drinks to avoid when choosing a diet for hemorrhoids:
Excess pizza
Excess red meat
Processed foods
Alcohol
Coffee
Caffeinated tea (caffeine will dehydrate you)
Spicy foods
Hot sauce
Hemorrhoids are frequently caused by constipation and in some cases caused by diarrhea (1). If you are constipated and suffering with hemorrhoids, you’ll want to take a look at what you are eating or drinking that is causing your constipation.
Avoid these foods to keep hemorrhoids away.
Now, there are many things that can cause constipation other than food.
So, check this list first to see if one of these might be causing your constipation:
Certain medications (2)
Not exercising, walking, or being active
Being stressed
Not using the bathroom when you need to
Too many laxatives
Eating to many antacids
Hypothyroidism (3)
Cancer of the colon
Digestive system problems (connective tissue, muscular and nerve) (4)
IBS
Pregnancy
Bulimia
Anorexia
If you are frequently constipated and one of the above is causing your constipation, make sure you see a doctor to find out how you may address the issue.
Once you have addressed that issue, let’s take a look at how you can change your diet for hemorrhoids.
Hemorrhoid Diet Video
The Most Common Poor Diet Scenario
Often times the first thing we do in the morning is have a coffee. While this isn’t necessarily bad for hemorrhoids, coffee does dehydrate you in strong enough doses (5, 6, 7).
For most people, coffee sends you right to the bathroom in the morning.
But, if your one of those people who finds yourself straining on the toilet seat or sitting for longs periods of time before passing a bowel movement, coffee might be your problem.
When you go to bed at night, you won’t get any fluids for at least 6-8 hours. That means you are dehydrated when you wake up. Add some strong coffee in the mix first thing in the morning, and now you could be very dehydrated.
That is why I have a full glass of water first before I have coffee. I make sure I’m hydrated and my bowel movements have been great….and guess what? I don’t have hemorrhoids.
Is Alcohol Bad for Your Hemorrhoids Diet?
If your searching for the right hemorrhoids diet, you better believe that alcohol is nowhere near it.
Like strong coffee, alcohol dehydrates your system (8). A lack of fluids in your body (dehydration) can cause all sorts of digestive system problems, including hemorrhoids (9).
If you are drinking too much alcohol, you are going to be dehydrated unless you also drink lots of water.
The worst thing you can do is have alcohol at night and then coffee in the morning before drinking water.
You will back your system up and really put some stress on your digestive system and bowels.
When Should I Try a Liquid Diet for Hemorrhoids?
Your doctor may recommend a liquid diet for you if you have a hemorrhoidectomy or PPH Stapled Hemorrhoidectomy.
The reason is that passing a bowel movement can be very uncomfortable and possibly damaging to the surgery and your sutures.
Passing a bowel movement after hemorrhoid surgery can be extremely painful (10).
For a full guide on all the top hemorrhoid surgeries, click here.
Is There a Diet for Internal Hemorrhoids?
Whether you have internal or external hemorrhoids, your diet should be the same. Make sure to drink plenty of water, avoid processed foods and red meat, eat complex carbohydrates, nuts, vegetables and fruits.
Many people have reported a change in the severity of their hemorrhoids after changing their diet (11).
Is a High Fiber Diet Important for Hemorrhoids?
Yes, a high fiber diet is very important for hemorrhoids, especially when you are constipated (12). While you can use stool softeners or supplements with fiber, we recommend that you change your diet first.
Using laxatives is a very poor long-term solution as it can cause health issues. Supplements with fiber can work, but you’re better off changing your diet first or using our amazing herbal supplement for hemorrhoids, called HemRid.
Please be kind and rate this post 😀
More Posts
← Previous Post Next Post →
0 comments
Leave a comment
Your Name
Your Email
Your Message
All blog comments are checked prior to publishing
See #1 Hemorrhoid Pick
Unhappy With Your Product? We'll Take It Back!
We stand by our high-quality products and your satisfaction is 100% guaranteed.
Secure Checkout
We use encrypted SSL security to ensure that your credit card information is 100% protected.
#1 Quality Skin Care
Revitalize your skin with anti-aging antioxidants, healing botanicals, organic ingredients, clinically proven ingredients and more. We take great pride in bringing you luxury skin care at affordable prices. All our products are proudly made in the USA for maximum effectiveness and quality.
Navigation
Home
Reviews
Store
Contact
About
Blog
Shipping
Privacy
Connect
Mailing Address:
Senvie Skin Care
126 East Wing St.
#355
Arlington Heights, IL 60005
United States
Email: support @ senvie.com
Copyright © 2019 Senvie Skin Care • Terms and Conditions
*These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
*Results in the testimonials may not be typical and your results may vary. Consult your physician before starting any diet, exercise program or supplement to avoid any health issues.
Some of the links found on Senvie.com are affiliate referral links. This means that if a reader clicks on text or an image to enter an online shopping site, Senvie.com may receive a commission from purchases made on that visit and sometimes future visits. There is no additional cost to the consumer; referral fees are paid by merchants. Through affiliate links and paid advertisements, we promote only products and businesses that we consider helpful to our readers.
The small amount we receive in affiliate return allows us to continue to operate this blog and provide you with quality content. Any time you use an affiliate link, we greatly appreciate it!
Senvie.com is an Amazon Affiliate
Senvie.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com, amazon.co.uk, amazon.ca, endless.com, smallparts.com, myhabit.com, and any other website that may be affiliated with Amazon Service LLC Associates Program.
Search our store
{{ this.title }}
{{ this.price }}
Remove
{{/each}} Checkout