Columbia SC tick control and prevention | Fight the bite!
Fight the bite!
Columbia SC mosquito control
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About
How effective is it?
Call right now!
Contact Us!
Mosquito Squad of Columbia
Kenny Kaufman
803.345.7575
Visit our Mosquito Squad of Columbia website
We will call you
Name(required)
Email(required)
What bugs do you want to kill?
Phone number(required)
Comment
Submit
Tag Archives for Columbia SC tick control and prevention
Columbia Safe Tick Control Practices
In South Carolina, the number of confirmed Lyme Disease cases continues to rise according to the National Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). In 2012, we had 35 confirmed and 9 probable cases here in SC. In 2011, only 24 cases of Lyme Disease were reported for South Carolina showing an unfortunate but substantial growth rate.
Our Mosquito Squad service eliminates ticks on contact and continues to eliminate ticks in the treated area with our proprietary timed-release system. In addition, our tick tube program disrupts the tick lifecycle to eliminate even more ticks on your property. But, in order to maximize the effectiveness of these solutions, you will also need to be aware of tick hiding places and breeding areas in your yard. For example, a tick control product that is effective above ground cannot reach the ticks buried under a couple feed of brush or deep within large piles of leaves.
Utilizing Mosquito Squad for your yard and following these 6 C’s will provide the best protection for your yard.
6 C’s of Tick Control:
1 “Clear” – Clear out debris which often accumulates in moist shady areas where ticks thrive. Also, steer clear of tall grass and shrubby areas.
2 “Clean” – Eliminate leave litter, brush off sidewalks and mow down tall grass to cut down on the places ticks can harbor.
3 “Choose” Select plants that aren’t attractive to deer. Deer are tick taxis, so do your best to avoid plants that that may entice them into your yard.
4 “Check” Look for hiding places frequently. Ticks like to hide along the base of fences and brick or stone walls.
5 “Care” be mindful of pets if they’ve spent any time outdoors. Ticks can easily hide in your pet’s fur. If your animals spend time in areas where ticks may be present, make sure you apply a topical tick medication.
6 “Call” Give the pros a call. Mosquito Squad’s barrier spray eliminates adult ticks, and our tick tubes do the same on nymph stage ticks.
When you choose our barrier spray as part of your tick prevention program, these steps will make them more effective.
Utilize Mosquito Squad of Columbia for all your insect and pest control needs. We successfully treat and rid your yard and home of mosquitoes, ticks, spiders, fleas and termites. Call us today for a free quote. (803) 345 – 7575 or email Columbia@MosquitoSquad.com. Visit our Mosquito Squad of Columbia website to learn more about all our insect and pest control services.
Mosquito Squad of Columbia is committed to supporting Malaria No More – One Child at a Time
Mosquito Squad of Columbia is a proud supporter of Malaria No More. We are committed to saving 250,000 lives over the next 3 years one child at a time.
Advertisements
March 26, 2014 by columbiamosquitosquad	Categories: Tick control and prevention	| Tags: Columbia SC tick control, Columbia SC tick control and prevention, Columbia SC tick prevention, Columbia SC tick tube, Mosquito Squad of Columbia, tick control | Leave a comment
The sobering statistics about mosquito and tick-borne illness in South Carolina
Last year, vector-borne illnesses such as Lyme Disease and West Nile Virus reported an all-time high among reported human cases. Mosquitoes and ticks are responsible each year for making thousands of people and pets sick – some even resulting in death. Most South Carolinians think that vector-borne illnesses happen elsewhere in the United States, but in fact they happen right here on South Carolina soil and in more sobering numbers than you might have imagined.
The most common mosquito- and tick-borne illnesses in South Carolina are West Nile Virus, Lyme Disease and Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever. Based on data from The USGS disease maps provided through the U.S. Department of the Interior in conjunction with the CDC, the reported number of vector-borne illnesses in humans contracted from mosquitoes and ticks in 2012 was as follows:
Mosquito-Borne illness numbers for South Carolina
West Nile Virus – The total number of human WNV infections in 2012 was 29, the number for the entire US was 5,674. According to the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control there were also 4 confirmed cases of West Nile Encephalitis confirmed in our state for 2012. We also had 16 confirmed cases West Nile Fever.
Lacrosse Encephalitis – South Carolina had one reported case in 2012 and 78 reported cases nationwide
Dengue Fever – South Carolina had two reported cases during 2012, with 545 total reported cases in the U.S.
Tick- Borne illness numbers for South Carolina
Lyme Disease – According to the SCDHEC there were 23 confirmed cases of Lyme Disease in S.C. for 2012. We also not the last reported numbers showing state to state confirmed cases of the disease comes to us from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention which show in 2011 South Carolina had a total of 24 confirmed cases of Lyme Disease, the total number of confirmed cases for the US was 24,364.
Ticks carry a host of diseases and thrive in moist, shady areas and tend to die in sunny, dry areas
Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever – In 2012 South Carolina had 10 confirmed cases of this illness, and 41 additional probable cases.
These statistics do not include many probable or undiagnosed cases of mosquito and tick borne illness. The SCDHEC Bureau of Disease Control reported in South Carolina, through October 5, 2012, there were 29 people confirmed ill with West Nile Fever or West Nile Neuroinvasive Disease. Three of these persons died. An additional 11 persons with no symptoms of West Nile infection were identified through screening of donated blood. South Carolina experienced more cases of West Nile Disease, in any form, in 2012 than in any previous year.
West Nile Virus is the most common mosquito-borne illness in North America and Lyme disease is the most commonly reported tick-borne disease. When Lyme Disease is left untreated infection it can spread to the joints, the heart and even the nervous system.
This image shows the bulls-eye rash that is a common symptom of most cases of Lyme disease in the diseases first phase.
Lyme Disease is the most widely misdiagnosed of all the vector-borne illnesses and is commonly referred to as the “great pretender”. This is because the symptoms of Lyme do indeed mimic the symptoms of other illnesses such as arthritis, asthma, depression and even eczema (due in part to the illnesses trademark rash that sometimes accompanies the presence of Lyme).
As you read over the statistics for vector-borne illness, you can clearly see these illnesses are not as uncommon in our neck of the woods as one may think. In order to keep your family safe from the risk of contracting one of these illnesses this season it is crucial to take control of your property to make it less hospitable for mosquitoes and ticks. By exercising smart mosquito and tick control practices on your property and having a licensed professional treat your property, you can dramatically reduce your risk of contracting a vector-borne illness.
The crew at Mosquito Squad of Columbia is here to protect you and your family from mosquitoes and ticks all season long.
Contact Mosquito Squad of Columbia today to learn more about our mosquito control and tick control prevention programs that are geared towards keeping your and your family safe from mosquito and tick-borne illness and disease. Now is the time to act in order to stay healthy and happy this season! Call us today for a free quote • (803) 345 – 7575 • email:Columbia@MosquitoSquad.com
June 14, 2013 by columbiamosquitosquad	Categories: Reducing the threat of mosquito-borne illness and disease, Reducing the threat of tick-borne illness and disease	| Tags: CDC, Columbia mosquito control, Columbia mosquito prevention, Columbia SC insect control, Columbia SC tick control and prevention, Lacrosse Encephalitis in Columbia SC, Lyme Disease in SC, Lyme DIsease prevention in Columbia SC, Preventing Lyme disease in Columbia SC, Preventing tick-borne illness and disease in Columbia SC, Protection from mosquito-borne illness in Columbia SC, Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever in Columbia SC, SCDHEC, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, U.S. Department of the Interior, USGS disease maps, West Nile Encephalitis in SC, West Nile Fever in SC, West Nile Virus in Columbia SC | Leave a comment
Is your Columbia,SC yard more likely to have ticks than other yards?
When it comes to talking about ticks, the mere mention is enough to bring many people to their knees. Tick education is important because of the many dangerous diseases ticks can pass onto you or your family. Tick-borne illnesses like Lyme Disease, Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, and Babesiosis are just a few of the illnesses ticks carry that can make you very sick and can even be fatal. The best way to avoid coming into contact with ticks, and thus reduce your chances of falling ill to one of the diseases they may be carrying, is to take a proactive approach to tick education and control.
Ticks thrive in damp, moist wooded areas and grassy fields
Ticks are such small ground dwellers they are often impossible to spot while enjoying backyard tasks such as gardening or playing in the backyard with your child. By the time you realize the tick has attached itself to you, the risk of contracting a tick-borne illness is heightened. This is especially the case with nymph deer ticks during the early spring since they can be as small as poppy seed. In order to help eliminate these tiny terrors from your landscape it is imperative to clean out areas where they can be hiding and waiting for the opportunity for contact with you, a member of your family or your pet. If the vegetation in your yard is dense and the area surrounding your yard contains wooded natural areas, it is a good possibility your yard will have more ticks in it than that of backyard that has a more manicured appearance.
The deer tick is the contributing factor for Lyme disease.
Mosquito Squad has put together a handy checklist of the most important elements to tick-proofing your yard this season. It is called the 6C’s of tick proofing your yard, we recommend the following steps to tick-proof your yard this season;
Clear out. Reduce your tick exposure by clearing out areas where lawn and tree debris gathers. Ticks thrive in moist, shady areas and tend to die in sunny, dry areas. Locate compost piles away from play areas or high traffic. Separate them with wood chips or gravel. Don’t position playground equipment, decks and patios near treed areas.
Clean. Eliminate leaf litter and brush by cleaning it up around the house and lawn edges, mow tall grasses and keep your lawn short.
Along with its beauty and aroma, lavender is known to be a deer deterrent.
Choose plants. Select plants and shrubs that are not attractive to deer and/or install physical barriers to keep deer out of your yard. Check with your local nursery to determine the best choices for your area. Many deer deterring plants are very attractive and will help enhance your landscape while providing a measure of safety against deer.
Check hiding places. Know tick hiding places and check them frequently. Fences, brick walls and patio retaining walls are popular hiding places.
Dog getting application of dermal flea and tick control.
Care for family pets. Family pets can suffer from tick-borne disease and also carry infected ticks into the home. Talk to your veterinarian about using tick collars and sprays. As with all pest control products, be sure to follow directions carefully.
Calls the pros. Professionals utilize both barrier sprays that can kill live ticks on the spot as well as tick traps, Strategically placed, “tick traps” prompt field mice to incorporate tick-killing material in their bedding, effectively eliminating hundreds of tick nymphs found in each mouse nest.
Contact Mosquito Squad of Columbia to learn more about our highly effective tick intensive control and prevention program designed to target ticks that carry Lyme Disease and other tick-borne illnesses. Our goal is to protect you, your family, your dogs, your cats, and your guests over the entire summer season when ticks are out in full force. That’s why our program is season long. We can spray your yard every 2-3 weeks depending on your program so there is no lapse in protection. Call us today for a free quote • (803) 345 – 7575 • email:Columbia@MosquitoSquad.com
The crew at Mosquito Squad of Columbia is here to protect you and your family from ticks all season long.
June 7, 2013 by columbiamosquitosquad	Categories: Deer tick, Tick control and prevention	| Tags: barrier spray, Barrier Sprays, Columbia SC insect control, Columbia SC tick barrier sprays, Columbia SC tick control, Columbia SC tick control and prevention, Columbia SC tick prevention, Columbia SC tick tubes, How to tick proof your Columbia SC backyard, Mosquito Squad's 6C's of tick-proofing your yard, Preventing Lyme disease in Columbia SC, Preventing tick-borne illness and disease in Columbia SC, Protection from SC ticks through barrier sprays, tick control, tick repellant, tick spray | Leave a comment
Mosquito Squad of Columbia teaches us that all mosquito treatments aren’t created equal!
The abundance of rain will ensure plentiful blooms and mosquitoes this season.
With all the recent rain we’ve had in the Columbia area, the mosquito season is likely to be a doozy this season. Standing water is everywhere which means the mosquitoes are using that pooled water to lay millions and millions of eggs. With the probability of a booming mosquito season, it’s important to keep you and your family protected from these backyard menaces and the many illnesses they carry. In choosing the right mosquito professional to take care of your mosquito control needs, it is important to choose someone who is experienced in getting the job done right the first time.
Mosquito larvae and eggs in standing water
I am sure you have seen the advertisements around town offering mosquito control. Many of these companies don’t even specialize in mosquito control and most only offer a “knock down” treatment rather than a residual product that truly protects. Knock down treatments mean that the product is only effective on the mosquitoes that are present in the yard at the time of treatment. Knock down treatments are all most of these companies use, that is why many customers have been left with a bad taste in their mouth and lots of bites on their bodies. The knock-down treatment is very inexpensive compared to the residual product but, you get what you pay for. Many Columbia residents feel that this is the only type of control available in the area. Mosquito Squad of Columbia is here to tell you that you can have a mosquito and tick free yard all summer with our duo of knock down protection and timed release extended treatment.
Not all mosquito treatments are created equal
We are raising the bar here in the Columbia area when it comes to mosquito control and we have the competition running scared. They know our product works, and theirs just scratches the surface at controlling mosquitoes. We use a proprietary treatment that includes three different products to deliver the ultimate effectiveness. We not only offer different levels of protection, we also offer many specialty treatments. We are specialists in outdoor pests. While other companies only offer a general pest management approach, we offer many different options that target the pests you are having problems with. Flying pests are much more difficult to control than crawling pests. Don’t ever let a company tell you there is no difference in the two, or there is nothing effective at targeting them both. At Mosquito Squad, that’s what we do.
Mosquito Squad of Columbia doesn’t give mosquitoes and other nuisance insects a biting chance!
Full protection throughout the summer:
If you talk to a professional who has knowledge about products used to eliminate mosquitoes, the knowledgeable ones will tell you it will wear off after about three weeks. Our competitors spray every 4 weeks which guarantees their customers will be unhappy 25% of the time.
Our regular barrier spray program is scheduled every 3 weeks for optimal results. Not only will the treatments eliminate existing mosquitoes and ticks in your backyard upon application, they will also create a veil of protection designed to keep more mosquitoes from entering your treated property until the next treatment. Our customers can also choose our platinum service with service every 14 days for the ultimate protection. If you come across a landscape or lawn service and they say they take care of mosquito control, beware. Their product most likely does not have the residual performance and the licenses usually held by landscape and lawn companies restrict them from spraying decks, patios, porches, home siding or structures. At Mosquito Squad of Columbia, we have the licenses to treat your structures as well as your yard.
Mosquito Squad of Columbia offers natural treatment programs that are garlic or mint based. Natural products have less residual protection than their contemporaries and need to be applied on a two-week schedule in order to gain the most effectiveness.
If you aren’t satisfied with any facet of the results you receive from our product, we re-spray at no charge. It is that simple. We always make sure our customers are taken care of, that is why Mosquito Squad of Columbia has so many repeat customers, because once you find out what works and who you can trust, that is the company you stick with. Along with our safe and highly effective pest control programs we also offer mosquito misting systems. Don’t just take our word for it. Visit our Mosquito Squad of Columbia website and read our reviews.
Mosquitoes are not only a nuisance, they also carry a wide range of illness and disease,
At Mosquito Squad of Columbia, we also offer services for other nuisance insects such as ticks, spiders, fleas, gnats, fire ants, flies, wasps, and aphids. Our specialty is eliminating the bugs above ground that are bugging you. You may find less expensive services elsewhere, but you will not find someone who provides better service or more effective protection. Mosquito Squad of Columbia surveys amond customers rank us 5 points ABOVE “World Class” ranking with more than 90% of our customers willing to refer us to friends and family.
Contact Mosquito Squad of Columbia today to learn why we are the pest control company that so many area residents are choosing to keep to help ensure their mosquito free lifestyle. Call us today for a free quote • (803) 345 – 7575 • email:Columbia@MosquitoSquad.com
May 20, 2013 by columbiamosquitosquad	Categories: mosquito control, Nuisance pest control	| Tags: Columbia Fire Ant control, Columbia mosquito control, Columbia mosquito prevention, Columbia SC aphid control, Columbia SC Asian tiger mosquito control, Columbia SC flea control, Columbia SC fly control, Columbia SC Gnat control, Columbia SC insect control, Columbia SC mosquito control, Columbia SC Mosquito free lifestyle, Columbia SC nuisance pest control, Columbia SC Spider control, Columbia SC spider control experts, Columbia SC tick control, Columbia SC tick control and prevention, Columbia SC wasp control, mosquito barrier sprays, mosquito misting systems | Leave a comment
Mosquito Squad of Columbia discusses how Lyme Disease ticks
Deer tick and dog tick
By now everyone is familiar with the term Lyme disease. Many people who live in the South think Lyme disease is a disease that only affects residents of Northern and Northeastern states. This could not be further from the truth. Lyme disease cases have been reported all over the country, with the only exception being Hawaii. Lyme disease is a specific concern for South Carolinians because every year the number of reported Lyme disease cases in our state is rising. Mosquito Squad of Columbia believes knowledge is one of the best defenses against tick borne illnesses such as Lyme Disease, Babesiosis and Ehrlichiosis. Our goal is to not only control and prevent ticks in your yard, but to also teach Columbia residents the basics about Lyme disease and the ticks that spread this disease.
What is Lyme disease?
Lyme disease is the most commonly reported vector-borne illness in the U.S., according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Each year, more than 30,000 Americans contract Lyme disease, an illness that can have lifelong effects including arthritis, fatigue and even neurological deficits. Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi and is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected blacklegged, or deer ticks. The deer tick becomes infected by feeding on small mammals who harbor the bacterium. Once the tick has become infected with the bacteria it can then transmit the bacteria to humans and other mammals. Lyme disease is most common during the spring and summer months.
Every sized tick is capable of spreading illness and disease.
Nymph ticks are the prime vector responsible for transmitting Lyme disease to people and pets. Adult and larval deer ticks are also capable of spreading the disease. During the immature larval and nymph stages of the tick’s life, it feeds from rodents such as mice. The nymph tick will live within the den of the rodent feeding at will, and maturing. The tick will then fall from the host and wait on the next host to latch onto. Nymph ticks are very small and can easily be picked by you or your pet while gardening, doing outdoor chores or even enjoying a long walk. The time of year when most of us are outdoors enjoying the spring temperatures is the time when the nymph ticks emerge to feed. Their size makes them hard to detect and thus to remove in a timely manner. According to the CDC, studies have shown that an infected tick normally cannot begin transmitting Lyme disease bacteria until it has been attached to its host about 36-48 hours. It is crucial to examine yourself at least once daily and remove any ticks before they become engorged with blood.
This image shows the bulls-eye rash that is a common symptom of most cases of Lyme disease in the diseases first phase.
Symptoms of Lyme disease
Symptoms from Lyme disease can become apparent 3-30 days following the bite of an infected tick. In some cases the symptoms are so mild those infected with the disease hardly take notice that something is wrong. Some people may have the well-known bulls-eye rash associated with Lyme disease. The bulls eye rash is called erythema migrans and expands in a red circle at the site where the tick was attached. Other symptoms of Lyme (sometimes called Lymes) disease include fever, headache, and muscle or joint pain. Many people will experience a fever and flu-like symptoms without a rash. Other symptoms such as joint pain, rashes on other parts of the body or inflammation of the heart or nerves can occur. If the disease is not treated, some patients may experience additional symptoms such as inflammation and excessive joint pain (Arthritis), neurological disorders and mental changes months after being infected.
The prognosis for Lyme disease is good if the disease is diagnosed early. Patients treated with appropriate antibiotics in the early stages of Lyme disease usually recover rapidly and completely. The longer the disease goes untreated the greater the risk of suffering from acute symptoms that can persist for years. This is called Post-Treatment Lyme Disease Syndrome which also called chronic Lyme disease. Acute Lyme disease can continue for years, even following repeated courses of antibiotics. In these cases Lyme disease can greatly affect your day-to-day activities and your quality of life as a whole.
Mosquito Squad of Columbia doesn’t give mosquitoes or ticks a biting chance
How to reduce your risk of contracting Lyme disease
Our goal at Mosquito Squad of Columbia is to reduce the risk of coming into contact with a tick that could potentially be harboring any tick-borne illness. Reducing your exposure to ticks is the best defense against Lyme disease. Utilizing a tick control and prevention program and exercising good tick practices when venturing into untreated areas is the first line of defense. We specialize in a tick prevention and control program that targets ticks during each stage of development. Our safe and effective barrier sprays eliminate adult ticks. Our barrier spray is used in conjunction with our tick tube program that targets the nymph tick. Tick tubes can reduce your chance of coming into contact with a tick on your treated property by up to 97%.
Contact us to learn how to control ticks and reduce the risk of contracting Lyme disease.
If you are interesting in learning more about our highly effective tick intensive control and prevention program contact Mosquito Squad of Columbia. When it comes to protecting your loved ones from ticks and the many diseases they carry an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure! Call us today for a free quote • (803) 345 – 7575 • email:Columbia@MosquitoSquad.com
March 28, 2013 by columbiamosquitosquad	Categories: Lyme disease, Tick control and prevention	| Tags: Babesiosis in Columbia SC, Barrier Sprays, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Columbia lyme disease tick bite, Columbia SC deer tick lyme disease, Columbia SC diseases from ticks, Columbia SC insect control, Columbia SC Lyme disease in dogs, Columbia SC Lyme disease treatment, Columbia SC Lymes disease treatment, Columbia SC tick control, Columbia SC tick control and prevention, Columbia SC tick tube, Columbia SC tick tubes, Columbus SC Erlichiosis, Columbus SC tick control and prevention, Preventing Lyme disease, Preventing Lyme disease in Columbia SC, Preventing tick-borne illness and disease in Columbia SC | Leave a comment
A crash course in Columbia SC tick basics; what you should know and why
The onset of spring brings blooms and pests.
The signs that warmer weather is close at hand are all around us. Trees here in the Columbia, SC area are budding and the daffodils and tulips are beginning to wake up from their winter nap. Springs’ arrival also means the arrival of nuisance pests that not only put a damper on our outdoor activities but they are also carriers of many ???-borne illnesses and diseases. One of these dreaded i??? is the tick.
Three types of ticks are the most common here in the Columbia area. These include the Ixodes also known as the black-legged tick but most commonly referred to as the deer tick, the Amblyomma or the Lone Star Tick, and the Dermacentor or American Dog Tick. Each of these blood seeking opportunistic arthropods can carry and spread disease and illness. Dog ticks are known vectors of Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever. The Lone Star tick is known to carry both Rocky Mountain spotted fever and Ehrlichiosis. Of course, the Deer Tick is widely known as the primary vector of Lyme disease. Deer ticks are also responsible for the spread of Babesiosis and Ehrlichiosis.
Every sized tick is capable of spreading illness and disease.
Your chance of coming into contact with a potentially infected tick is more likely during the summer months. All ticks at every stage of life have the capability of spreading disease to humans and other animals. The immature nymph deer tick is one of the most difficult to detect because of its tiny size. Some nymphal deer ticks are no bigger than the size of a poppy-seed which can make detection nearly impossible. These small deer ticks carry the same risks of infecting you with Lyme disease as that of an adult deer tick. The appearance of the deer tick comes at a time of year when many folks are outside working in their gardens, tending flowers, and enjoying the spring weather. The arrival of this tick makes people and pets a prime target to become the main course on the deer ticks menu which puts us at risk for contracting Lyme disease.
The deer tick is the contributing factor for Lyme disease.
On a lighter note, being bitten by a tick doesn’t automatically mean you are going to contract a tick-borne disease such as the ones listed above. Not all ticks are infected. Finding a tick on your body should spark a call to action, but it is also important to stay calm. By following the safe tick removal procedures as outlined by the CDC you will minimize the risk associated with the disbursement of bacteria within the tick from entering the wound, and thus reduce the chance of infection.
If you have already been bitten by a tick it is important to pay close attention to the warning signs that you may be sick from the bite. Lyme disease is best known by its trademark “bull’s-eye” rash. Although common, Lyme disease doesn’t always produce this rash and it is important to learn the other symptoms of tick-borne illness and disease. Many tick-borne diseases display similar symptoms such as fever, chills, aches and pains which are flu-like in nature, headache and fatigue. If you think you have been infected by the bite of a tick it is important to contact your physician immediately so further testing can be done to determine, diagnose and treat the illness early. Treating the illness early is crucial in avoiding long-term complications.
Nymph ticks are sometimes as tiny as poppy seeds like the ones on this bagel.
The best way to reduce the risk of coming into contact with a tick this spring, and throughout the warm season ahead is awareness and prevention. Mosquito Squad of Columbia specializes in barrier sprays formulated to eliminate adult ticks from your yard. We also offer a tick-tube program that targets larval ticks, or baby ticks. Through the use of these two tick control programs, we can reduce the chance of coming face to face with a tick within your treated area by up to 90%.
Contact Mosquito Squad of Columbia to learn more about ticks and our various tick control and prevention programs. We can help keep you and your loved ones safe from ticks this spring and throughout the summer. Contact us today to schedule your tick control early because time is tick, tick, ticking away. Call us today for a free quote • (803) 345 – 7575 • email:Columbia@MosquitoSquad.com
You can learn more about our tick tube program by watching our informative video outlining how tick tubes work.
March 7, 2013 by columbiamosquitosquad	Categories: Tick control and prevention, Tick Tubes	| Tags: A crash course in Columbia SC tick basics; what you should know and why, Barrier Sprays, Columbia SC insect control, Columbia SC tick control, Columbia SC tick control and prevention, Columbia SC tick prevention, Columbia SC tick tube, Columbia SC tick tubes, Preventing Lyme disease in Columbia SC, Preventing tick-borne illness and disease in Columbia SC, tick control | Leave a comment
Our tick tube program is the first line of defense against canine Lyme disease
Keep your pampered pooch happy and healthy with tick control from Mosquito Squad of Columbia. Let the good times roll!
Dog owners know better than anyone how bad the tick season has turned out to be this summer. Our furry friends love to spend time outdoors, and also love to stick their little wet noses into areas where ticks love to hang out. From exploring around rocks and debris piles to running through the woods, our dogs are ultimately the most vulnerable members of our families when it comes to picking up ticks. Our hot temperatures and abundant rainfall mixed with a milder than usual winter has made the tick population in the Columbia area soar. This combination paired with your dog’s curiosity can lead to your pet being at risk for contracting canine Lyme disease.
Man’s best friend can get Lyme disease just like we can. The disease is caused by a bacteria carried by a tick and can be spread to you and your pet from the bite of an infected tick. Lyme disease in dogs is sometimes mistaken for arthritis because two of the most common symptoms are painful joints and lameness. Some dogs that are infected with Lyme never show any symptoms at all, but others can become very sick from the disease. Severe cases of canine Lyme disease can lead to heart problems and kidney failure in your pet. Since the common “bulls eye” rash seen in a high percentage of human Lyme disease cases is not seen in dogs suffering from the disease, as pet owners we have to pay attention to the other warning signs that our dog may be sick. Common symptoms that should set off an early warning for dog owners are a low-grade fever, lack of appetite, swollen lymph nodes near the site of a tick bite, stiffness, difficulty breathing and sensitivity to touch. The first sign that something is wrong lies in checking your pet thoroughly to see if a tick is still attached in the fur. Longer hair breeds can have ticks attached that are often overlooked. Research indicates that younger dogs are more likely to contract Lyme than older dogs, and certain specific breeds seem to develop kidney disease as a result of Lyme disease more often than other breeds. These include Labrador Retrievers, Golden Retrievers and Bernese Mountain dogs.
The Deer Tick. The culprit responsible for Lyme Disease.
The reason for the increase in the number of dogs contracting Lyme disease is because of our lifestyle changes. More people means a need for more housing, and in turn as a society we have begun to encroach into the habitat of the prime sources responsible for the spread of Lyme disease. Deer ticks as well as mice lie at the source of humans and pets becoming infected with the disease. And we now build communities closer to wooded areas and fields where the ticks and mice reside. The progression of Lyme disease acts as a chain, and each source and host act as a link of that chain with humans, dogs and other animals being the last link that completes the chain of disease. In order for the disease to come full circle and infect us, or our pets, each link has to fall into place.
The root of Lyme disease is the tick which feeds from the mouse carrying the bacterium that causes Lyme disease which is called Borrelia burgdorferi. The deer tick feeds from the mouse by becoming an uninvited guest within the nest of the mouse. The tick feeds from the mouse and in turn the tick in transported back to the nest of the mouse where it is in the opportune location to feed, mature and continue to perpetuate the cycle of disease. Once the tick has reached the nymph stage it is then ready to fall off the mouse and shed in order to mature to the next stage of development which is the adult stage. Nymph ticks are easily picked up by humans and dogs while outdoors. The nymph deer tick is so tiny it is hard to see, and often overlooked, especially within the coat of your dog. Once the tick has attached itself to its host it then feeds, the bacteria that causes Lyme is passed through the saliva of the tick.
Keeping your entire family safe from the risk of contracting Lyme is our goal. By breaking the chain of disease in interrupting the life cycle of the tick you can reduce your risk of you or your dog becoming infected with Lyme Disease. Tick control and prevention is crucial to keep your pet healthy and safe. We recommend taking control of your property by keeping grass trimmed and debris cleaned up to make your yard less hospitable for mice and ticks. Keep your dog on a regular routine of oral or topical tick preventative as suggested by your veterinarian, and have a tick control professional include a tick tube program at the appropriate times on your property.
How tick tubes work.
Mosquito Squad of Columbia uses a highly effective tick tube program in conjunction with our barrier sprays to target all stages of the ticks’ life. Tick tubes work to eliminate the nymph tick before it has a chance to spread disease. Tick tubes are an innovative approach to tick control because they work in breaking the chain of potential disease. Tick tubes are small tubes that contain insecticide treated cotton. This cotton makes tempting bedding for mice to take from the cotton back to their nest. The treated cotton is safe for the mice, but deadly to the tick that is lurking within the mouse’s nest. Tick tubes are a win/win because the mouse gets a nice fluffy bed and the ticks perish. Studies have shown that utilizing a tick tube program reduces the risk of exposure to an infected tick by up to 97% on a treated property. In addition to the nymph tick, we also use a safe and effective barrier spray to target adult ticks on your property. This tick-intensive program gives you your yard back and gives your entire family peace of mind.
Contact Mosquito Squad of Columbia to learn more about fighting the bite, and getting the upper hand on ticks this summer. In addition to tick control we also offer control and prevention of mosquitoes, fire ants, fleas, spiders and flies too.
Call us today for a free quote • (803) 345 – 7575 • email:columbia@mosquitosquad.com
August 16, 2012 by columbiamosquitosquad	Categories: Canine Lyme disease, Deer tick, Tick Tubes	| Tags: Barrier Sprays, Columbia SC canine Lyme disease prevention, Columbia SC insect control, Columbia SC tick control and prevention, Columbia SC tick tube programs to prevent Lyme disease, Columbia SC tick tubes, Keeping your dog safe from tick-borne diseases in Columbia SC, Preventing canine Lyme disease is Columbia SC, Preventing Lyme disease in Columbia SC, Preventing tick-borne illness and disease in Columbia SC, tick control, tick spray | Leave a comment
Post navigation
← Older posts
Search Our Blog
Search for:
Subscribe to Our Blog
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 11 other followers
Sign me up!
Post categories
Post categories Select Category Asian Tiger mosquito Barrier Sprays Beneficial mosquito eating animals native to S.C. Canine Lyme disease Chikungunya Cicada Killer Wasp Columbia SC tick control Customer service Deer tick Dock Spider Removal Dog tick Dread Skeeter Eastern Equine Encephalitis Event Sprays Fire Ant Control Flea control Fly control Fly control for horse barns Free Columbia termite inspection Gallinippers the giant mosquito Gardening Gnat control and education Heartworms Insect-borne pet diseases and illnesses Larvacides Lyme disease Lyme Disease Awareness Month Malaria No More Mistaway Mosquito Misting Systems Misting systems mosquito control Mosquito Control Awareness Week Mosquito Control for horse barns and stables Mosquito-borne diseases MRSA Nuisance pest control Pest Control Pet Protection Powassan Virus Preventing mosquito bites Reduce mosquito breeding grounds Reducing the threat of mosquito-borne illness and disease Reducing the threat of tick-borne illness and disease Reviews and testimonials South Carolina Mosquito Control Association Special event sprays Spider control Tapeworms termite control Termite Guarantee Termite Prevention Termite Protection Termite Service Termite Treatment Tick control and prevention Tick Tubes ticks Uncategorized Wasp Control Wedding and special events West Nile Virus Why are My Crape Myrtles Black?
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Fight the bite!
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy