Chimps can develop AIDS after all | New Scientist
×
THE DAILY NEWSLETTER
Sign up to our daily email newsletter
Subscribe and save
Menu
news
technology
space
physics
health
environment
mind
video
travel
events
jobs
Sign in
Search
Sign in
Log in with facebook Log in with google
Email
Password
Forgotten Password?
Sign up for free|Educational access
Sign up for more online articles
A selection of top articles hand-picked by our editors available only to registered users.
Get increased access now
Manage your subscription
Check your subscription package, update your details, renew or upgrade.
Manage your subscription here
Activate subscription
Chimps can develop AIDS after all
Life 22 July 2009
By Vian Azzu
The discovery that chimpanzees can develop an AIDS-like illness after infection with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), may have implications for future AIDS research and the prevention of HIV infection.
Until now, it was thought that SIV infection in chimps did not result in disease. However, after following 94 wild chimps in Gombe Stream National Park in Tanzania for nine years, Beatrice Hahn, of the University of Alabama at Birmingham, and colleagues have shown that SIVcpz, the virus that jumped from chimps to humans as HIV-1, can and does cause an AIDS-like illness.
Over the 9 years of the study, SIVcpz infection caused an increased risk of mortality. “Up to 41 per cent in adults and 100 per cent in infants, and lower birth rates,” says Hahn, “but we need longer-term follow-up to determine what proportion of infected animals develop an AIDS-like illness.”
Unique opportunity
Hahn suspects that compared to HIV-infected humans, a greater proportion of SIV-infected chimps do not go on to develop fatal disease. “But this is not simple to test because chimpanzees don’t just walk into clinics and give you a blood sample.”
Advertisement
However, Hahn hopes that future research into animals which have long-term infection without developing an AIDS-like illness will yield insights that will enable us to better tackle HIV infection.
The team believes that these findings provide a unique opportunity to compare the disease-causing mechanisms of two closely related viruses – SIVcpz and HIV-1 – in two closely related species. Such work has also already yielded information on mortality rates, prevalence and routes of spread of HIV and SIV.
Journal reference&colon; Nature, DOI&colon; 10.1038/nature08200
More on these topics:
HIV and AIDS
conservation
Advertisement
Trending
Latest
Video
Free
The UK has already had more wildfires in 2019 than any year on record
We may finally know what causes Alzheimer’s – and how to stop it
Genetically modified virus may shrink incurable brain cancers
Anti-ageing drugs are coming that could keep you healthier for longer
Peanut allergy immunotherapy may actually do more harm than good
Extremely fast winds and high waves are now happening more often
The truth about the QWERTY keyboard
Have people in the UK really been banned from shooting wood pigeons?
AI learns to paint in the styles of Van Gogh, Turner and Vermeer
I want to believe: An astronomer's view of aliens
What do you do with the world's most powerful laser?
Anu Ojha: Will humans make it to Mars?
Geraint Lewis: What is the fate of our universe?
Emily Mitchell: Mysterious early lifeforms
Extremely fast winds and high waves are now happening more often
The truth about the QWERTY keyboard
Have people in the UK really been banned from shooting wood pigeons?
Extinction Rebellion’s three demands on climate change explained
Japan's Hayabusa 2 bombed an asteroid and took pictures of the crater
Download
Buy In Print
Advertisement
Sign up to our newsletter
Enter your email address to get started
Contact us
Help
About us
Privacy & cookies
Terms & conditions
Advertise
Write for us
Events
Science jobs
Syndication
RSS feeds
Gift subscriptions
Student subscriptions
Educational subscriptions
Corporate subscriptions
Get the app
FOLLOW US
© Copyright New Scientist Ltd.
Back to top