Sodium bicarbonate+baking powder healing effect - note - healings
D - ESP - RU(py) - THAI(ไทย)
Note: healings with sodium bicarbonate and baking powder
Sodium bicarbonate+sugar molasses: healing of cancer (90%), and organs, gland and nerves: diabetes (90%); 100%: allergies, asthma, thyroid gland; kidneys, lungs (TB, , kidneys, TB, alcoholism, pneumonia, bronchitis, smoker's lung), depression, alcoholism, influenza in 3 days - sodium bicarbonate+apple cider vinegar also heal: blood circulation, numbness of the limbs, cold hands and cold feet, high blood pressure, heart problems, brains, muscle cramps etc.
Michael Palomino, portrait - Sodium bicarbonate in a glass and on a tea spoon [1] - Baking soda of the company "Arm & Hammer" [8] - Sugar molasses [5] - Algarrobina from algarroba tree from South "America" [6] - Apple cider vinegar [7]
Attention: pregnant women are in danger of bleeding by soda healing effects. Only take little dosage or blood group nutrition.
Sodium bicarbonate+sugar molasses: healings of cancer (90%), and organs, glands, and nerves: diabetes (90%), 100%: vaccination damages (allergies, asthma, thyroid gland); kidneys, lungs (TB, pneumonia, bronchitis, smoker's lung), depression, alcoholism, flu in 3 days - with baking soda + apple cider vinegar also cure: blood circulation, numbness of the limbs, cold hands and feet, high blood pressure, heart problems, brains, cramps etc. - pH values under pH6 - between pH6 and pH7 - pH7 - over pH7 - pH values below pH6 - between pH6 and pH7 - pH7 - and above pH7 -- Sodium bicarbonate in water+sugar molasses, maple syrup, algarrobina or biological honey - or with apple cider vinegar -- Increasing pH - increasing oxygen in the blood - organs, glands and nerves are healing - curing complex diseases: cancer, diabetes, allergies, asthma, thyroid gland, kidneys, lungs (TB, pneumonia, bronchitis, smoker's lung), depression, alcoholism, flu -- Cancer heals with pH8 - EVERY cancer and EVERY degree -- Sodium bicarbonate+apple cider vinegar: at one stroke to pH7.3 - heals also blood circulation, numbness of the limbs, cold hands and feet, high blood pressure, heart problems, brains, muscle spasms -- Sodium bicarbonate or baking soda - are healing equally -- General conditions for healing with sodium bicarbonate (soda) or baking powder (baking soda) -- Blood group nutrition of Dr. med. D'Adamo with his clinic in Wilton near New York -- Cancer and diabetes: 10% of patients do not heal with sodium bicarbonate (soda) -- Warning: Noni cures cancer and diabetes but ALSO provokes weight loss - Yacon cures diabetes -- July 2017: Circulation and numbness of the limbs - capillaries are cleaned and the sensibility is back -- November 2017: the case of a pregnant woman in Lima -- The pH value in normal life: pH between pH6 and pH7: After a cure you have to normalize the pH for normalizing uric acid - with whole grain nutrition -- Warning: Soda with lemon does NOT heal but causes weight reduction (heals overweight) -- Healings with soda water
by Michael Palomino, Lima (November 2017 / March 2018 / January 2019)
www.med-etc.com – Facebook: Michael Palomino Ale
Share:
Facebook
Twitter
Soda+sugar molasses: healings of cancer (90%), and organs, glands, and nerves: diabetes (90%), 100%: vaccination damages (allergies, asthma, thyroid gland); kidneys, lungs (TB, pneumonia, bronchitis, smoker's lung), depression, alcoholism, flu in 3 days - with baking soda + apple cider vinegar also cure: blood circulation, numbness of the limbs, cold hands and feet, high blood pressure, heart problems, cramps etc.
Sodium bicarbonate in a glass and on a tea spoon [1]
Since September 2015 I am healing with sodium bicarbonate. After over 2 years of healing experience (estate of November 2017) there healed the following illnesses: 5 cancer cases, about 12 diabetes cases, 3 allergies, 2 asthma cases, 2 alcoholism cases, 2 kidney cases, 1 case of bronchitis, 2 cases of TB, 2 cases of thyroid dysfunction. Additionally a Facebook friend in Vienna healed his allergies with sodium bicarbonate, flu heals in 3 instead of 7 days, and he also healed a smoker's lung. And healings are going on. With the instructed nurse are healing 6 cancers in a line, 5 diabetes in a line, 8 TBs in a line etc.
Sodium bicarbonate is normally an agent in the baking powder for making bread: at 50° C, baking powder dissolves into CO2 and water so that a dough "is rising". Baking soda or soda being taken as a drug are causing a healing effect with the body temperature of 37° C resulting a a high pH value in the body:
pH values under pH6 - between pH6 and pH7 - pH7 - over pH7
People with an illness have a sour pH value of about pH4 or pH5. Healthy people have a light sour pH value between pH6 and pH7 and uric acid can be segregates well. When pH value is rising to pH7 then the body is neutral, but uric acid cannot be segregated well any more.
pH values below pH6 - between pH6 and pH7 - pH7 - and above pH7
Sick people have an acidic body with pH4 or pH5. Healthy people have a pH between pH6 and pH7. pH7 is neutral. Healings take place between pH7 and pH8, the body is basic. After healing, the pH must decrease to a level between pH6 and pH7 to ensure that the uric acid is well excreted.
The scheme with the pH values: acidic below pH6 (susceptibility and risk of disease), between pH6 and pH7 for normal life, the neutral pH value of pH7, and the basic-healing pH above pH7 between pH7 and pH8 [2]
Sodium bicarbonate in water+sugar molasses, maple syrup, algarrobina or biological honey - or with apple cider vinegar
Sodium bicarbonate as a cure has a great effect: take 1 tea spoon in 1 glass of water, mix it, take it in the morning on an empty stomach and in the evening 2 hours after the last meal. This provokes a rising pH value of the body. This sodium bicarbonate solution can be sweeten with sugar molasses, maple syrup, algarrobina or biological honey, just following your taste. In this way the pH value is rising in the body. Within 10 days pH value is rising by 3 points. The oxygen in the blood increases by a factor of 10 per pH point, that means at 3 pH points by 1000 times. This oxygen is neutralizing toxics and damaging substances in the body and in this way organs, glands and nerves are being freed from them and healing - all at the same time.
1 cup of a bicarbonate solution with sugar molasses [3]
The scheme shows the increasing pH and the potential increase of oxygen in the blood by a factor of 10 per pH point [4]
Sugar molasses [5] or Algarrobina [6] cause a natural sweetness with the soda and strengthen the healing effect with minerals.
At the beginning of the cure, a short diarrhea may occur. 10% of cancer patients and diabetic patients also have more negative reactions and have to heal with blood group nutrition or fruit extracts (Noni, Yacon, etc.). The healing with Noni, Yacon etc. is more expensive and takes 3 to 6 months. The other 90%, who tolerate soda well, take in soda for 10 days. With other diseases such as allergies, asthma or lung diseases, natron is working well to 100% (as of November 2017).
One can measure pH value daily. When the healing has not occurred after 10 days and no disturbing symptoms occur, one can continue until pH8 is reached. When symptoms like joint pain or severe headache occur after 10 days, wait 10 days and then make a "second round".
Increasing pH - increasing oxygen in the blood - organs, glands and nerves are healing - curing complex diseases: cancer, diabetes, allergies, asthma, thyroid gland, kidneys, lungs (TB, pneumonia, bronchitis, smoker's lung), depression, alcoholism, flu
When the pH increases by one point, the oxygen in the blood increases tenfold. This oxygen in the blood heals organs, glands and nerves, and is thus curing complex diseases such as [xxx] cancer, diabetes, allergies (vaccine damage), asthma (vaccine damage), thyroid disorder (vaccine damage) kidneys, lungs (pneumonia, bronchitis, TB, smoker's lung), depression, alcoholism. Influenza heals in 3 days instead of 7 days.
Cancer heals with pH8 - EVERY cancer and EVERY degree
Cancer heals with 1 teaspoon of soda in 1 glass of water combined with sugar molasses, maple syrup, algarrobina or honey in about 12 days. If the pH is above pH7, the body is basic. In a basic body, cancer cells can NOT survive. With a pH above pH7 or pH8 EVERYONE can heal cancer away. The cancer cells are ALL reverting to normal cells. Tumors collapse and disappear.
NO CHEMOTHERAPY: There MUST NOT BE ANY CHEMOTHERAPY. Chemotherapy destroys the complete body and healing AFTER a chemotherapy with soda will last months. Soda cure is applied 1 time per month with pH8 during 3 days. And some organs need special treatment with natural medicine to recover.
Sodium bicarbonate+apple cider vinegar: at one stroke to pH7.3 - heals also blood circulation, numbness of the limbs, cold hands and feet, high blood pressure, heart problems, brains, muscle spasms
People tolerating soda well can also add 3 to 4 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar to the soda solution (1 teaspoon of soda in 1 glass of water and about 3 to 4 glug-glug from the cider bottle) - on an empty stomach. This special lemonade causes a rapid increase in pH at one stroke to pH 7.3. Diseases then heal in 5 days to 80%, in 30 days to 100%. Additionally are healing blood circulation, numbness of the limbs, cold hands and feet, high blood pressure, heart problems, brains after apoplectic strokes, ad also the susceptibility to muscle cramps is reduced. But curing cancer, one has to reach pH8. So after 3 days of pH7.3 one has to take the soda solution with sugar molasses or honey for reaching pH8. With soda + apple cider vinegar alone, cancer does NOT heal.
Apple cider vinegar [7]
By the way, it can be any vinegar, depending on what's available or what you like most: wine vinegar, balsamic vinegar, apple cider vinegar, in Ecuador it was also banana vinegar etc.
Instruction for sodium bicarbonate in 1 glass of water with apple cider vinegar - warning
1) Beginning with sodium bicarbonate in water with apple cider vinegar one shoult first try out how the body is reacting, thus only take 1/2 of a glass. With 5% of the patients, they get diarrea, with 5% their pH value is not rising, and 90% get healing effects with pH7.3
2) After the intake of soda + apple cider vinegar wait 15 minutes for meals and 30 minutes for other beverages or there can be a mess on the toilet...
3) Pregnant women should take only little dosages or better no sodium bicarbonate and should only heal with blood group nutrition, sodium bicarbonate can provoke bleedings and births - or delay the healing for the time after pregnancy.
4) Children up to 12/13 only get the half - babies heal with sodium bicarbonate water with spray in the mouth on an empty stomach in the morning.
Sodium bicarbonate or baking soda - are healing equally
Instead of sodium bicarbonate (soda) with sugar molasses, one can also use baking powder with sugar molasses, where sodium bicarbonate is the main ingredient. The baking powder must not contain any additives or aluminum.
Baking soda (here from the company Arms & Hammer) contains as its main ingredient soda and also heals like soda [8]
General conditions for healing with sodium bicarbonate (soda) or baking powder (baking soda)
Preconditions for a cure with soda are the following:
-- DO NOT take any pharmaceutical drugs because they may interfere with the action of soda
-- taking the soda solution with sugar molasses (or maple syrup, or algarrobina, or honey) is always on an empty stomach in the morning and 2 hours after the last meal
-- taking the soda solution with apple cider vinegar is sober in the morning only 1 time per day - the healing effect is strong enough - people who want to take soda + apple cider vinegar twice daily, can do that, in the evening 2 hours after the last meal
-- at the same time you should only take fresh and wholesome food (all wholegrain: whole grain rice, wholemeal bread, olive oil, fresh fruits) and one should drink complete, sugar-free drinks with apple or lemon, lemon drinks only half an hour AFTER taking the soda solution otherwise the healing effect is neutralized
-- and in the house should already be a temperature of at least 10 degrees Celsius, so that the immune systems have energy to heal - in a hospital with 0 degrees without good food and without warm drinks neither sodium bicarbonate cannot heal anything...
-- during pregnancy take only small doses at your own risk, can cause bleeding - only take little quantities or better heal with blood group nutrition only:
Blood group nutrition of Dr. med. D'Adamo with his clinic in Wilton near New York
In addition, each patient can introduce blood group nutrition as an adjunctive medical measure making life even safer and healthier, as each blood type has its own stomach type and its own focus on specific foods and beverages. So people should know their blood type. Here are the data of Dr. med. D'Adamo and his clinic in Wilton near New York.
Dr. D'Adamo with nurses in his clinic [9]
Clinic of Dr. D'Adamo in Wilton near New York in the "USA" [10]
Sometimes there are also people who do not want to read a lot and want to continue their industrial diet with fries or meals against their blood type and with damaging beverages with corrosive citric acid etc. In these cases, then no blood group nutrition is introduced, but you make yourself twice a year a sodium bicarbonate therapy. With the apple cider vinegar this prevention lasts only 5 days. But arthritis, rheumatism and other diseases will come along anyway, which would not come with the blood group nutrition.
Cancer and diabetes: 10% of patients do not heal with sodium bicarbonate (soda)
10% of patients suffering from cancer and diabetes have negative reactions to soda, such as stomach problems, strong headaches, or the pH just does not rise. These people need to heal with blood type nutrition or with fruit extracts:
-- cancer and diabetes heal with blood group nutrition
-- cancer and diabetes combined with overweight heal with Noni (fruit juice that tastes like cheese), with Noni simultaneously reducing overweight
-- diabetes also heals with Yacon.
These healings cost more lasting 3 to 6 months. With blood group nutrition the healings also last 3 to 6 months with a slowly rising pH value - and it's a general prevention.
Warning: Noni cures cancer and diabetes but ALSO provokes weight loss - Yacon cures diabetes
Noni is a super fruit with a cheese-flavored fruit juice with over 100 active ingredients (vitamins, minerals and enzymes), but also causes weight loss. People suffering from cancer or diabetes and at the same time suffering overweight will normalize their weight with Noni then. Weight loss is beginning in the second week after the beginning of the cure. Appetite is reduced by curing thyroid gland.
Noni cures cancer, diabetes AND reduces obesity [11] - Yacon cures diabetes, here from Kaita Company [12]
So:
-- fat, overweight cancer patients who can not tolerate the soda, can take the noni (sober in the morning a small cup 20ml)
-- meager cancer patients, who can not tolerate the soda, should NOT take the noni, but cure the cancer with blood group nutrition or cannabis oil, apricot kernels, graviola etc.
These healings with fruit extracts or the healing with blood group nutrition cost more and last about 3 to 6 months. Blood group nutrition is also a general precaution.
Yacon cures diabetes and is also available as yacon juice or yacon tea.
July 2017: Circulation and numbness of the limbs - capillaries are cleaned and the sensibility is back
Elderly patients report that with a solution of 1 teaspoon of soda in 1 glass of water with 3 to 4 tablespoons of cider vinegar taken regularly during 5 to 7 days, they experience a total cleansing of the circulatory system (arteries, veins, capillaries) and feel all the limbs again they have barely felt before, or also after a stroke - and one brain "normalized" after a stroke - so:
-- they did not feel the foot - now the sensibility is back
-- they did not feel the toes anymore - now the sensibility is back
-- hands and feet were "cold" - now hands and feet are warm again
-- the blood pressure was at 200 - now he is at 118
-- the heart did not work properly - now the heart beats smoothly and painlessly
-- a brain after a stroke has normalized completely.
People who have many things to heal can also take the the soda apple cider vinegar solution for 3 weeks. First the circulatory system will be healed, and then one organ after another, one gland after another.
November 2017: the case of a pregnant woman in Lima
She has a benign ulcer taking sodium bicarbonate with algarrobina leaving with hemorrhage and had to change her treatment switching to blood group nutrition without sodium. That's why there is the warning for pregnants.
The pH value in normal life: pH between pH6 and pH7
After a cure you have to normalize the pH for normalizing uric acid - with whole grain nutrition
After healing with soda, the pH must normalize to between pH6.3 and pH6.5. This can be achieved with a 1-week diet with whole grain and blood group nutrition, e.g. with whole grain rice, with home-made apple compote without sugar and with homemade vegetable mixtures without additives. You should refrain from any fried food, because frying oil is very harmful for all the body.
Warning: Soda with lemon does NOT heal but causes weight reduction (heals overweight)
Sodium bicarbonate solution combined with lemon does NOT heal, because lemon is NEUTRALIZING soda. Instead, the soda-lemon solution causes weight loss.
Healings with soda water
Cuts are healing with soda water without scarves (May 2018)
2 cuts (by knife and a glass window) have cured with soda water in 1 week WITHOUT SCARVES. First, the cut is disinfected (lemon, etc.), and then from the next day on, the cut wound was wet every 3 hours with a little bit of soda water (soda water for wounds: 1 flat tea spoon per glass of water, the concentration should not be too high). The first 4 days there was a medical strip which was put off for wetting the wound, then no strip was put any more. So, BOTH CUT WOUNDS HAVE CURED WITHOUT LEAVING ANY SCARVES WITHIN 1 WEEK.
Have a good healing!
Links:
Information about sodium bicarbonate in detail (big analysis of the book of Dr. Mark Sircus)
The healing of cancer of grade 4 by Vernon Johnston (with baking powder)
Share:
Facebook
Twitter
Photo sources
[1] Sodium bicarbonate in a glass and on a tea spoon: photo from Michael Palomino 2017
[2] Scheme with pH values: photo from Michael Palomino 2017
[3] Cup with soda sugar molasses solution: photo from Michael Palomino 2015
[4] Scheme with pH values and oxygen values in the blood: photo from Michael Palomino 2017
[5] Sugar molasses: photo collection of Powerpoint
[6] Algarrobina: Michael Palomino 2016
[7] Apple cider vinegar: photo from Michael Palomino 2017
[8] Baking soda of the company "Arm & Hammer": photo collection of Powerpoint
[9] Dr. D'Adamo with nurses in his clinic in Wilton near New York ("USA"): http://www.dadamo.com/bloggers/p/archives/00000106.htm
[10] The clinic of Dr. D'Adamo in Wilton near New York ("USA"): http://www.dadamo.com/clinic/
[11] Noni: photo from Michael Palomino 2017
[12] Yacon: http://www.productosnaturalesdeperu.com/productos-para-la-salud
^