3 Recipes to Lose Belly Information, tips and suggestions
BLog Home
RecipesEmpadão Recipe (1)AccessoriesBagsBeautyAcne (5)Health Lose Weight With Health (16)Fast Weight Loss (2)Diabetes (1)DetoxificationNutritionNewsRelationshipTravellingIndia (1)MarketingEducationNatureVacation
English
English
Español
Português
Deutsch
French
Italian
Russian
Toggle navigation
Categories
BLog Home
Recipes
Empadão Recipe (1)
View all Recipes
Accessories
Bags
View all Accessories
Beauty
Acne (5)
View all Beauty
Health
Lose Weight With Health (16)
Fast Weight Loss (2)
Diabetes (1)
Detoxification
Nutrition
View all Health
News
Relationship
Travelling
India (1)
View all Travelling
Marketing
Education
Nature
Vacation
Health Information, tips and suggestions
Lose Weight With Health
3 Recipes to Lose Belly
Subscribe to our Newsletter
Enter your email address to get the hottest deals Online. You will be the first to know about our offers, new arrivals, and more!
We value our customers and will not share your email address to any third party. You will not be spammed.
No thanks, I am not interested!
Create your personalized account in 10 seconds. Fill up the details in below form.
First Name
Last Name
Password
Password Confirm
3 Recipes to Lose Belly
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
To lose weight fast, healthy and fast, here are examples of menus and diets to lose fat. We also indicate the natural remedies, pharmacy and teas to lose weight, complete program with exercises, as well as the foods most suitable for not starving and always feel good, at peace with the scale and the mirror.
3 Recipes to Lose Belly
These 3 recipes, in addition to super simple to make, help lose belly because they have functional foods with thermogenic properties that facilitate weight loss and fat burning and should be included in a weight loss program with a balanced diet of few calories and regular practice of physical activity, such as dancing or walking every day for at least 30 minutes.
1. Red Cranberry Vitamin with Skim Yogurt
Red cranberries contain pterostilbene, a substance that helps reduce body fat and yogurt calcium prevents fat from building up in fat cells.
How to do: Beat 1 skim yogurt and 1 cup of cranberries in the blender.
When to take: This combination is great for afternoon snack or when accompanied by granola for a full and nutritious breakfast.
2. Coffee with cinnamon
Two cups of coffee per day contribute to weight loss by having caffeine and chlorogenic acid, which help speed up metabolism and burn fats. In addition, the cinnamon when added to the coffee increases the fat burning of this drink.
How to do: Add a teaspoon of cinnamon in a cup of coffee, sugar free.
When to take: Drink up to two cups of cinnamon coffee a day before 5:00 p.m., so that caffeine does not cause insomnia overnight.
3. Apple juice with ginger
The ursolic acid of the apple peel helps to burn calories and when taken with ginger can increase the metabolism by about 20% which facilitates the burning of fats.
How to do: Put an apple with bark and 5 g of ginger in the blender and beat well.
When to take: This juice can be drunk on a fast or before meals because the apple has fibers that will help decrease appetite and eat less in the meal.
3 of the best homemade recipes to lose belly are the red cranberry vitamin with low-fat yogurt, coffee with cinnamon and apple juice with ginger
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Tags: Lose BellyRecipes
Related Articles
04 12 - 2017
Detoxify the Body Why It Matters Information, tips and suggestions
04 12 2017 Author:Health .
: Marketplace Store Latina
Made by Storelatina.com