What is Green Coffee & How Does it Work?
≡
✆
ORDER NOW!
Home x
About Green Coffee
Clinical Studies
Why Go Premium?
FAQs
Contact
Order Today
"Green Coffee Premium is the real deal. It helped me lose more weight than anything else I tried!"* Janey D.
100% Pure Green Coffee Bean Extract with 50% Chlorogenic Acid
50% Chlorogenic Acid
Look for 50% Chlorogenic Acid when buying green coffee bean. 50% chlorogenic acid and is the green coffee extract found in the clinical trial where participants lost over 17 lbs while on Green Coffee Bean Extract.*
Read about the clinical Study done on Green Coffee Bean Extract.
If you are not completely satisfied with the results of Green Coffee Premium™ ,we will give you your money back! So, feel confident that you will lose weight*, or your money back!
What is Green Coffee & How Does it Work?
Only a Premium Green Coffee Will Help You Lose Weight*
OK, first things first - It's important to understand that not all Green Coffee Bean Extracts are created equal. Only high quality green coffee beans are going to get you the weight loss results you are looking for.* And to be more specific, we highly recommend green coffee with 50% Chlorogenic Acid.
Why 50% Chlorogenic Acid? Because it is the green coffee bean extract that was used in the clinical study mentioned on the world famous TV doctor's show and found in the Diabetes, Metabolic Syndrome and Obesity journal, where participants lost an average of 17 pounds each and 16% body fat.*
Assuming that we're talking about a high quality green coffee supplement, what is it and how does it work? Green coffee beans are unroasted coffee beans that contain a very important active compound called Chlorogenic Acid.
What is the Key to Losing Weight in Green Coffee?*
Chlorogenic Acid is the key to weight loss and is found in abundance inside a premium green coffee bean extract like Green Coffee Premium™.
Chlorogenic Acid has the powerful action of inhibiting the release of glucose in the body while increasing liver metabolism or fat burning in the liver. These two actions combined work together to inhibit the absorption of fat and stop weight gain.*
Green Coffee Helps Our Body Burn Fat*
Most people eat more glucose than any other food group. Eating glucose is unavoidable. But when we eat too much our body has nowhere to store it, so it converts it into fat and stored as adipose tissue which we know to be body fat. Excess glucose leads to a protruding belly, fat around the hips, thighs and butt and cellulite buildup where the fat is stored.*
So, what we need to do to stop thee fat buildup is one of two things. We can try to stop our bodies from converting glucose to fat or we can try to burn and pump out fat that exists in our bodies. The amazing thing about Chlorogenic Acid that's found in Green Coffee is that it enables our bodies to do both of those things.*
You see, our liver is the most important fat burning organ in the body. If we're able to strengthen our liver, help it burn fat and pump fat away, we can essentially lose more weight. Chlorogenic Acid helps to increase our metabolism. By increasing our live metabolism, it essentially helps to keep weight under control.*
Green Coffee Stops the Body From Storing Fat*
In addition to burning fat and pumping it away, chlorogenic acid found in a premium green coffee extract also inhibits the release of glucose in the body. By inhibiting its release, chlorogenic acid stops the body from storing more body fat.*
So, to recap, a premium green coffee bean extract contains chlorogenic acid, which is the key to weight loss. Chlorogenic Acid helps with weight loss by stopping the release of glucose in the body, thus stopping it from creating body fat. And Chlorogenic Acid increases your liver metabolism which in turn burns fat and pumps it away.*
Green Coffee is the ultimate tool to help you lose weight. Its been all over the news for a reason. But make sure you only buy a premium Green Coffee bean extract that will actually help you to lose weight and not just some powder in a pill.
Home
What is Green Coffee?
Clinical Study
Why Green Coffee Premium™?
Order Today
FAQs
See Label
Contact Us
Green Coffee Premium™ is a dietary all-natural herbal supplement consisting of 100% Green Coffee Extract standardized to 20%, with no fillers, binders or other ingredients, and packaged in a vegetarian capsule.
* Results will always vary for individuals, depending on the individual's physical condition, lifestyle, and diet. Testimonials and results contained within may not be an implication of future results. Always consult your physician before making any dietary changes or starting any nutrition, health control or exercise program. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. The information in this website is not intended as a substitute for medical advice.
* These trademarks, service marks, logos (including, without limitation, the individual names of products and retailers) are the property of their respective owners and have not endorsed this advertisement/product.
— Terms & Conditions — Privacy Policy —
Copyright © 2019, Green Coffee Premium™™
All Rights Reserved.