Negative Side Effects of Ab Exercises | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Sports and Fitness
Fitness
Ab Exercises
Negative Side Effects of Ab Exercises
Max Roman Dilthey | updated on January 30, 2018
About the Author:
Max Roman Dilthey
Max Roman Dilthey is a science, health and culture writer currently pursuing a master's of sustainability science. Based in Massachusetts, he blogs about cycling at MaxTheCyclist.com.
View Full Profile
Six-pack abs might come at a steep cost. If you're practicing the wrong ab exercises, or over-stressing your abdominal muscles, you could be doing more harm than good. Avoid the negative side effects of ab exercises with a carefully selected workout routine, and by paying close attention to your body — pain is a signal telling you something's wrong.
Your ab workout shouldn't cause you any pain. (Image: Jacob Ammentorp Lund/iStock/Getty Images)
Strained Muscles
It's possible to overwork the network of muscles that make up your abdominals and core. Just like any other muscle group, your abs are subject to strain if you overexercise, perform an activity your body isn't ready for, lift something heavy or sharply twist your body while playing sports.
If you're experiencing muscle pain, soreness, swelling, bruising, stiffness, or problems flexing your abs, take a break from exercising and apply ice. If the soreness persists longer than a day or two or you experience extreme pain, it's time to visit a doctor or physiotherapist.
Don't let you ab workout hurt your back. (Image: EpicStockMedia/iStock/Getty Images)
Back Pain
When you're performing an ab exercise like a crunch or sit-up, you could be setting yourself up for a painful back injury. Stuart McGill, a back-pain clinician and professor of spine biomechanics at the University of Waterloo in Canada, warns that these exercises place a "devastating load" on the discs of your spine.
McGill's lab found that the load placed on the spine, combined with the flexing motion of a sit-up caused discs to bulge and eventually herniate -- a serious back injury. These conventional ab exercises are quickly falling out of fashion; exercise physiologists and personal trainers are starting to replace these staple exercises with less injury-prone alternatives.
The plank pose is an ideal alternative to traditional sit-ups. (Image: Darunechka/iStock/Getty Images)
Pain-Free Exercises
There are many ab exercises, like those that draw from yoga, that match the natural mechanics of your body, leaving you pain-free. McGill suggests exercises that focus on held positions, like the plank.
His suggestion is mirrored by Commander David Peterson, executive officer for the physical education department at the U.S. Naval Academy. Peterson also recommends the plank, since holding a static position mimics how we use our core in daily life while pushing, pulling, and carrying.
Static Exercises
Static exercises like the plank are the path to pain-free abs. To execute a proper plank, lay flat on your stomach and lift your body off the ground using your hands and feet, and hold this push-up position for as long as you can.
The plank engages your core in a way that mimics the static, held position you'll need to lift a heavy object, so it builds muscle in a way you can actually use. The plank is a good gateway into other static exercises like the side plank, the bird dog and the bent-leg raise.
You can work your way up to a whole routine of challenging ab exercises. If your muscles begin to shake, it's a good time for a break — overexercise can strain your ab muscles.
Read more: The 41 Hardest Ab Exercises
Warning
If you think you may have injured yourself while exercising, discontinue exercise and see a doctor immediately.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Mount Sinai Hospital: Abdominal Muscle Strain
The Wall Street Journal: Why You Can Stop Doing Sit-Ups
New York Times: Is Your Ab Workout Hurting Your Back?
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Back Pain While Doing Crunches
2
Can You Dissolve Fat Lumps in the Body?
3
Are Sit-Ups & Crunches Bad for the Spine?
4
What Is a Plank Push-Up?
5
Rehabilitation Exercises for a Dislocated Finger
6
Are Rowing Machines Bad for Shoulders?
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.