Wireless Devices And Cellphones Cause Cancer? | ENCOGNITIVE.COM
Home
Account
Log in
Contact
freewill@encognitive.com
About
About EnCognitive
Disclaimer
Accolades
Research
Knowledge Base
Nutrients
Neurotransmitters
Superfoods
Hormones
Anatomy
Antioxidants
Botanicals
Articles
Interviews
Videos
Images
Library
Questions
Doctor's corner
Forum
News
News by categories
Cancer dictionary
Naturalopy
Cancer
VACCINATION
Home
Wireless Devices And Cellphones Cause Cancer?
Tagged:
Cancer
Do cellphones cause cancer?
Let's start with this one from MacClean's.ca: "Despite mounting concerns that cell phones may cause cancer, a new study—a major review of previously published research by a committee of international experts—concluded there was no convincing evidence the devices cause cancer, Reuters reports. It also found a lack of biological mechanisms by which a phone's radio signals could trigger tumours."
Now, for the other side of the buzz from News.com: "In a report issued today, the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), which is an arm of the WHO, said it now lists mobile phone use in the same category as lead, gasoline engine exhaust, and chloroform. Officially, cell phone radiation is listed as a 'carcinogenic hazard.' "
Confused? Let's sort out the buzz from both sides.
First, there is a trend to the results of the studies. Most, if not all, studies that were funded by the cell phone or telecommunications industry have found that cell phones are not linked or associated with cancer. Is that surprise?
On the other hand, the majority of independent studies, those not funded by the cell phone industry, have found a strong link or association between cell phones and cancer, especially brain cancer. Are the results a coincidence?
Now, let's go back to the tobacco industry of a few decades ago. Back then, every single study funded by the tobacco industry found no causal relationship between cigarettes and lung cancer. We now know otherwise. In fact, for a brief period, the tobacco industry was using doctors to promote their cigarettes as a healthy way to relief stress.
So, is the cell phone industry the tobacco industry of the 21st century? Let's do some research.
Some cell phones are now coming with warning labels, such as:
"This device emits electromagnetic radiation, exposure to which may cause brain cancer. Users, especially children and pregnant women, should keep this device away from the head and body."
And From alphabiocentrix.com: "Studies with mammals show that EMR transmitted from cell phones creates portals in the Blood-Brain Barrier big enough to allow large albumin molecules to pass through and begin to pool around the ganglia of brain cells. Not only does this accumulation of albumin impede intercellular communication in the brain, but researchers are concerned that the portals that will allow such large molecules to pass across the protective Blood-Brain Barrier would also allow a host of smaller, more brain-toxic substances into the brain as well."
From Discovery.com: "In an experiment conducted by Dr. Ashok Agarwal, of the Cleveland Clinic, two groups of men were tested for the effects of cell phone exposure on sperm count. One group formed the control group, and the other was the test group. The test group was exposed to cell phones set in talk mode in close proximity to their bodies for one hour. The men were tested both before and after their exposure to cell phone radiation. At the end of the experiment, not only did the test group show a decrease in their sperm counts, they also demonstrated a significant increase in their production of free radicals."
Himmm. Exposure to radiation, such as those from cell phones, can open the blood brain barrier. We have electronic radiation, blood brain barrier (BBB), and free radicals. That's quite a load. So, let's do some more research on them.
Related Content
Marijuana Cures Cancer? The Facts On THC, Cannabinoids, Cannabis
Is Cancer Genetic? What Causes Cancer?
Cooked Meat And Other Foods Cause Cancer? Stomach Cancer, Colon Cancer, Liver Cancer...
What Causes Cancer? Carcinogens: Things That Cause Cancer (Cancer Causing Agents)
Meat Causes Cancer: Breast Cancer, Stomach Cancer, Colon Cancer
Cancer Diet: What Foods To Eat If You Have Cancer
Cancer Can Be Cured: Aloe Arborescens Cancer Treatment Protocol
Things that cause cancer: Report on Carcinogens, 2011
Alternative Cancer Treatment Saved My Life: First-Hand Account
Understand Cancer Series
UNDERSTAND CANCER
Home Back to top