Be proactive about UTIs ;
; ;
Fill valid email
Fill valid phone number
Failed to mark product as interested. Please refresh the page and try one more time.
Get a Free Copy of The Book with Minimum Donation
Donate
1-855-745-2271
Register
Log in
×
Notification
Start
Welcome
Home
About Us
Services
Health Info
All Topics Mental Health Diabetes Obesity Hypertension Heart Health Nutrition Cancer Hospitals Senior Health Prescription Drugs Water Retention Doctors Body Fat Percentage Workplace Wellness Proactive Health Men’s Health Women’s Health
Your Stories
Quiz
Contact Us
Be proactive about UTIs
5 years ago | UTI
By pH health care professionals
Your urinary tract includes the kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. These organs remove waste and excess water from your body, and urinary tract infections (UTIs) occur when bacteria enters the urinary tract. UTIs occurring in the bladder (bladder infection) usually are not serious if treated right away. However, if you are not proactive about taking care of them, bladder infections can spread to your kidneys. A kidney infection is serious and may be life threatening.
Symptoms of UTIs usually depend on which part of the urinary tract is infected. So, for example, when the infection is in the urethra, you may notice some burning with urination. However, if the infection is in the bladder, you might experience pelvic pain or frequency of urination with small amounts of urine being passed. If the kidneys are infected, you might experience upper back and side pain with a fever. A doctor can diagnose a bladder infection by performing a urinalysis (evaluating a sample of your urine).
What does hibiscus have to do with UTIs?
Hibiscus has long been used in Africa and Asia for treating UTIs. It is described as being mucilaginous, which suggests that it may help to coat and soothe the urinary tract and prevent bacteria from clinging to it. There are a couple reported clinical trials that suggest that the use of hibiscus extract decreased the likelihood of UTIs.
Why is the hibiscus so effective?
The compounds in hibiscus responsible for some of these benefits are called calyces. The calyx contains significant amounts of polyphenols, flavonoids, sambubioanthocyanidins, proanthocyanidins and chlorogenic acids, which were reported by several studies to possess excellent antimicrobial activity against bacteria like E. coli, Staphylococcus, Bacillus subtilis and Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
So what should you do?
If you are otherwise healthy, you might try a hibiscus tea. It’s tasty and full of healthful benefits. But remember, trying hibiscus to promote urinary health is not a replacement for seeking out medical counsel or treatment for a urinary tract infection. Hibiscus may also have some side effects. For example, it may cause your blood pressure to drop, so use caution if you have low blood pressure. It may also interfere with the effectiveness of some drugs.
Be proactive and enjoy your healthy life!
The pH professional health care team includes recognized experts from a variety of health care and related disciplines, including physicians, attorneys, nutritionists, nurses and certified fitness instructors. This team also includes the members of the pH Medical Advisory Board, which constantly monitors all pH programs, products and services. To learn more about the pH Medical Advisory Board, click here.
Tags
hibiscus uti urinary tract infections antimicrobial kidney infection bladder infection urinary health women's health symptoms of UTI UTI treatment UTI prevention
Comments (4)
Guest
11/3/2014 5:37 PM
So men can get UTIs as well?
Guest
11/5/2014 5:42 AM
Yes - men get UTIs too and when they do it may often be misdiagnosed. It is rare in men under 50 but occurrence increases in men over 50.
Guest
11/5/2014 7:44 AM
thanks for this information! awesome!
Guest
11/5/2014 10:46 AM
UTI's are clinically more severe in females at younger ages 20-40 year, while a lot of UTI's are less symptomatic in younger males. Nevertheless both genders can get UTI's. E-coli infections are very prevalent in females, while less common in younger males. STD's like chlamydia occurs in both genders but may vary in obvious severity of symptoms. Nevertheless it should be checked and treated to avoid complications.
Read Next
1 day ago
Keep Active In Your 60s To Stay A Step Ahead Of Diabetes (And Don’t Forget Nutrition Too!)
2 days ago
Hitting the Gym After Work? You Might Want to Consider Having a Cup of Coffee First
3 days ago
If You’re Pregnant, You’re Not “Eating for Two.” But You Should Be Eating to Avoid a Low Birth Weight Baby
Newsletter
Trending articles
We Need Universal Health Education - Not Universal Health Care! 5 days ago
Trace Minerals: What They Are And Why You Need Them 2 years ago
11 Types of Magnesium You Should Know About 3 months ago
More Health Info
Related Products
Minerals - The Forgotten Nutrient: Your Secret Weapon for Getting and Staying Healthy
Available on iBooks and Kindle.
$9.99
Available in paperback edition.
$19.99
Sherman Oaks Health Center
14619 Ventura Blvd Sherman Oaks 91403
(818) 728-9882
MON-FRI: 9:00 am - 5:00 pm, SAT: by appt. only
All other times will be available for clients, by appointment only
Navigation
Tell Your Story
Site Map
pH Health Care Professionals
FAQ
Conditions of Use
Follow us
© 2018 pHLabs
Please add your comments below