Read This Before Ever Buying Chewing Gum Again
Health
Breaking Stories
DMCA
Legal Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Follow Us
Search
Chew Gum? You Definitely Need to Read This
by MARCO TORRES
If you are still purchasing chewing gum from conventional manufacturers, STOP TODAY! Don’t buy another pack or even chew another piece until you read this report. The following is a comprehensive list of major brands to avoid due to their toxic formulations containing the two very deadly sweeteners aspartame and sucralose.
When heated to 86 degrees Fahrenheit (human mouth = 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit) — aspartame releases free methanol that breaks down into formic acid and formaldehyde in the body.
Monsanto, the creator of Aspartame knows all about the dangers. They fund the American Diabetics Association, the Conference of the American College of Physicians and Congress. A recent report from businessweek showed that Monsanto spent $2 million dollars lobbying the U.S. government in the 3rd quarter of 2011 alone.
Many bills that have attempted to warn people about the dangers of aspartame have been killed off by the powerful drug and chemical lobbies, letting loose the hounds of disease and death on an unsuspecting public.
Aspartame in gum is absorbed by the buccal mucosa of the mouth, gums, and the tongue. According to research, because aspartame is absorbed this way, it makes aspartame a far worse poisoning than if given or injected intravenously. The aspartame goes directly into the brain by passing the spinal cord and the blood-brain barrier when it is absorbed in the mouth. The smallest amount of aspartame (like what is contained in a piece of gum) is very dangerous and damaging to the health of the body.
When aspartame is ingested into the digestive tract, it breaks down into numerous other poisons. The intact Aspartame molecule and its diketopiperazine form are vastly worse poisonings than any of the other poisonings which arise from it during digestion, and liver processing of the digestive blood, which is delivered directly to the liver via the portal vein. The other poisonings, as mentioned, are indeed horrendous but Aspartame from gum is far worse, making even the smaller amounts contained in chewing gum strikingly dangerous and damaging.
Aspartame, via ingestion into the digestive tract, is made into some ten other poisonings by the digestive processes, and then excepting that which is delivered directly to the pancreas, they are transported straight to the liver via the portal vein, where they then are very partially dealt with, and partially reprocessed. Afterwards, they are sent in somewhat lesser concentration to the entire body, lessening the amount which eventually goes to the brain. The amount getting to the brain from either source is devastating to it in many ways. Aspartame is most certainly devastatingly toxic when ingested, but a like amount is immensely worse when obtained from chewing gum.
If you’d like to avoid aspartame, please keep in mind that it’s not only in chewing gum. It is a common ingredient in many packaged foods and beverages, particularly those that are marketed as being sugar-free or low in calories. Examples include sugar-free or low calorie:
* Yogurt
* Chewing gum
* Soft drinks
* Cookies and candy bars that are made for diabetics
* Frozen desserts
* Artificial sweeteners
* Cough candies, drops, and syrups
* Chewable vitamins
CHEWING GUMS CONTAINING
ASPARTAME AND SUCRALOSE
“5” – Wrigley, USA
“Big League” – Ford Gum, USA
“Big Red” – Wrigley, USA
“Bubble Yum” – Hershey, USA
“Bubblicious” – Cadbury, UK
“Clorets” – Cadbury, UK
“Cinnaburst” – Cadbury, UK
“Dentyne” – Cadbury, UK
“Doublemint” – Wrigley, USA
“Dubble Bubble” – Concord Confections, Canada
“Eclipse” – Wrigley, USA
“Eclipse Ice” – Wrigley, Australia, New Zealand
“Excel” – Wrigley, USA
“Extra” – Wrigley, USA
“Freedent” – Wrigley, USA
“Fruit Stripe gum” – USA
“Hoodia Gum” – USA
“Maple Leaf Chewing gum” – Netherlands
“Hubba Bubba” – Wrigley, USA
“Ice Breakers” – Hershey, USA
“Juicy Fruit” – Wrigley, Canada, USA
“Mentos” – Netherlands
“Nicorette” – Canada, USA
“Orbit” – Wrigley, USA
“Razzles” – Wrigley Jr. Company, USA
“Tidal Wave” – Amurol Confections, Aurora, Illinois
“Think Gum” – Think Gum LLC, USA
“Stride” – Cadbury, USA
“Trident” – Cadbury, Canada
“Vibe Energy Gum” – Super Mouth Ltd, UK
“Winterfresh” – Wrigley, USA
“Wrigley’s Spearmint” – Wrigley, USA
“Zoft Gum” – Zoft Gum Company, USA
A tsunami of bad publicity and ground root outcry has destroyed the public acceptance of aspartame and the sales are in the toilet. Netherlands producer, Holland Sweetener closed its doors and in the USA Merisant, went bankrupt a year ago for $230 million. Aspartame set an all time high in volunteered consumer complaints to the USA’s Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which once published a list of 92 reactions to it including 4 types of seizures, blindness and death. Yahoo lists 7 million aspartame sites, overwhelmingly condemnatory.
Aspartame is now set to change its name to AminoSweet. With that alias, again they intend to fool us, sicken us and murder us. They will have to buy enough advertising, bribe enough phoney “experts” and use corrupt front organizations to endorse their junk. Crime will march on and aspartame, not to be called aspartame, will retain that dear toxicity which it owns without that title.
WHAT IS ASPARTAME?
Aspartame, also marketed as Nutrasweet, Spoonful, Canderel and Equal as well as being a common additive in many foods and drinks (sometimes shown as the E number E951), is quite simply a poisonous sugar replacement.
It is made up of three chemicals: Aspartic acid, phenylalanine, and methanol.
Aspartic Acid (40 percent of aspartame)
Dr. Russell L. Blaylock, a professor of neurosurgery at the Medical University of Mississippi, recently published a book thoroughly detailing the damage that is caused by the ingestion of excessive aspartic acid from aspartame. Blaylock makes use of almost 500 scientific references to show how excess free excitatory amino acids such as aspartic acid and glutamic acid (about 99 percent of monosodium glutamate (MSG) is glutamic acid) in our food supply are causing serious chronic neurological disorders and a myriad of other acute symptoms.
Aspartate and glutamate act as neurotransmitters in the brain by facilitating the transmission of information from neuron to neuron. Too much aspartate or glutamate in the brain kills certain neurons by allowing the influx of too much calcium into the cells. This influx triggers excessive amounts of free radicals, which kill the cells. The neural cell damage that can be caused by excessive aspartate and glutamate is why they are referred to as “excitotoxins.” They “excite” or stimulate the neural cells to death.
Aspartic acid is an amino acid. Taken in its free form (unbound to proteins) it significantly raises the blood plasma level of aspartate and glutamate. The excess aspartate and glutamate in the blood plasma shortly after ingesting aspartame or products with free glutamic acid (glutamate precursor) leads to a high level of those neurotransmitters in certain areas of the brain.
The blood brain barrier (BBB), which normally protects the brain from excess glutamate and aspartate as well as toxins, 1) is not fully developed during childhood, 2) does not fully protect all areas of the brain, 3) is damaged by numerous chronic and acute conditions, and 4) allows seepage of excess glutamate and aspartate into the brain even when intact.
The excess glutamate and aspartate slowly begin to destroy neurons. The large majority (75 percent or more) of neural cells in a particular area of the brain are killed before any clinical symptoms of a chronic illness are noticed. A few of the many chronic illnesses that have been shown to be contributed to by long-term exposure to excitatory amino acid damage include:
-Multiple sclerosis (MS)
-ALS
-Memory loss
-Hormonal problems
-Hearing loss
-Epilepsy
-Alzheimer’s disease
-Parkinson’s disease
-Hypoglycemia
-AIDS
-Dementia
-Brain lesions
-Neuroendocrine disorders
The risk to infants, children, pregnant women, the elderly and persons with certain chronic health problems from excitotoxins are great. Even the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB), which usually understates problems and mimics the FDA party-line, recently stated in a review that:
“It is prudent to avoid the use of dietary supplements of L-glutamic acid by pregnant women, infants, and children. The existence of evidence of potential endocrine responses, i.e., elevated cortisol and prolactin, and differential responses between males and females, would also suggest a neuroendocrine link and that supplemental L-glutamic acid should be avoided by women of childbearing age and individuals with affective disorders.”
Phenylalanine (50 percent of aspartame)
Phenylalanine is an amino acid normally found in the brain. Persons with the genetic disorder phenylketonuria (PKU) cannot metabolize phenylalanine. This leads to dangerously high levels of phenylalanine in the brain (sometimes lethal). It has been shown that ingesting aspartame, especially along with carbohydrates, can lead to excess levels of phenylalanine in the brain even in persons who do not have PKU.
This is not just a theory, as many people who have eaten large amounts of aspartame over a long period of time and do not have PKU have been shown to have excessive levels of phenylalanine in the blood. Excessive levels of phenylalanine in the brain can cause the levels of seratonin in the brain to decrease, leading to emotional disorders such as depression. It was shown in human testing that phenylalanine levels of the blood were increased significantly in human subjects who chronically used aspartame.
Even a single use of aspartame raised the blood phenylalanine levels. In his testimony before the U.S. Congress, Dr. Louis J. Elsas showed that high blood phenylalanine can be concentrated in parts of the brain and is especially dangerous for infants and fetuses. He also showed that phenylalanine is metabolised much more effeciently by rodents than by humans.
One account of a case of extremely high phenylalanine levels caused by aspartame was recently published the “Wednesday Journal” in an article titled “An Aspartame Nightmare.” John Cook began drinking six to eight diet drinks every day. His symptoms started out as memory loss and frequent headaches. He began to crave more aspartame-sweetened drinks. His condition deteriorated so much that he experienced wide mood swings and violent rages. Even though he did not suffer from PKU, a blood test revealed a phenylalanine level of 80 mg/dl. He also showed abnormal brain function and brain damage. After he kicked his aspartame habit, his symptoms improved dramatically.
As Blaylock points out in his book, early studies measuring phenylalanine buildup in the brain were flawed. Investigators who measured specific brain regions and not the average throughout the brain notice significant rises in phenylalanine levels. Specifically the hypothalamus, medulla oblongata, and corpus striatum areas of the brain had the largest increases in phenylalanine. Blaylock goes on to point out that excessive buildup of phenylalanine in the brain can cause schizophrenia or make one more susceptible to seizures.
Therefore, long-term, excessive use of aspartame may provid a boost to sales of seratonin reuptake inhibitors such as Prozac and drugs to control schizophrenia and seizures.
Methanol (aka wood alcohol/poison) (10 percent of aspartame)
Methanol/wood alcohol is a deadly poison. Some people may remember methanol as the poison that has caused some “skid row” alcoholics to end up blind or dead. Methanol is gradually released in the small intestine when the methyl group of aspartame encounter the enzyme chymotrypsin.
The absorption of methanol into the body is sped up considerably when free methanol is ingested. Free methanol is created from aspartame when it is heated to above 86 Fahrenheit (30 Centigrade). This would occur when aspartame-containing product is improperly stored or when it is heated (e.g., as part of a “food” product such as Jello).
Methanol breaks down into formic acid and formaldehyde in the body. Formaldehyde is a deadly neurotoxin. An EPA assessment of methanol states that methanol “is considered a cumulative poison due to the low rate of excretion once it is absorbed. In the body, methanol is oxidized to formaldehyde and formic acid; both of these metabolites are toxic.” They recommend a limit of consumption of 7.8 mg/day. A one-liter (approx. 1 quart) aspartame-sweetened beverage contains about 56 mg of methanol. Heavy users of aspartame-containing products consume as much as 250 mg of methanol daily or 32 times the EPA limit.
Causes Cancer
Aspartame is a multi-potential carcinogen, even consumed daily at 20 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. That is a lower quantity than the maximum recommended by the FDA (50 mg/kg of body weight) and the European Union (40 mg/kg).
It increases the incidence of malignant tumours in rats. In the females it increases leukaemia and lymphomas, as well as cancerous cells in the pelvis and urethra. In the males, it especially increases the incidence of malignant tumours in peripheral nerves.
According to an investigation of cancer by the World Heath Organisation, the experimental study of carcinogenic agents in rats is very important for humans. One-third of the cancer-causing agents in man have been discovered with experiments conducted on animals.
The study of the doses correlated between the milligrams that were consumed and body weight. This tells us that the carcinogenic effect in children could be greater (because of their lower weight). The carcinogenic agents have a stronger effect on the embryo, which is why pregnant women are at greater risk.
WHAT IS SUCRALOSE?
A report from scientists at Duke University demonstrated that the artificial sweetener Splenda (sucralose) and its key component sucralose pose a threat to the people who consume the product.
According to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, 11 to 27 percent of ingested sucralose is absorbed by the human body (FDA 1998). Research published by the manufacturer of sucralose (Roberts 2000) shows that when 8 healthy male adults where given sucralose (in 1 mg/kg amounts), between 10.4% and 30.6% of the sucralose was absorbed. In addition, 1.6% to 12.2% of the sucralose accumulates in the body.
Aspartame has been forced out by increasing public awareness that it is both a neurotoxin and an underlying cause of chronic illness worldwide. Dr. James Bowen, Researcher and biochemist, reports:
“Splenda/sucralose is simply chlorinated sugar; a chlorocarbon. Common chlorocarbons include carbon tetrachloride, trichlorethelene and methylene chloride, all deadly. Chlorine is nature’s Doberman attack dog, a highly excitable, ferocious atomic element employed as a biocide in bleach, disinfectants, insecticide, WWI poison gas and hydrochloric acid.
“Sucralose is a molecule of sugar chemically manipulated to surrender three hydroxyl groups (hydrogen + oxygen) and replace them with three chlorine atoms. Natural sugar is a hydrocarbon built around 12 carbon atoms. When turned into Splenda it becomes a chlorocarbon, in the family of Chlorodane, Lindane and DDT.
“It is logical to ask why table salt, which also contains chlorine, is safe while Splenda/sucralose is toxic? Because salt isn’t a chlorocarbon. When molecular chemistry binds sodium to chlorine to make salt carbon isn’t included. Sucralose and salt are as different as oil and water.
“Unlike sodium chloride, chlorocarbons are never nutritionally compatible with our metabolic processes and are wholly incompatible with normal human metabolic functioning. When chlorine is chemically reacted into carbon-structured organic compounds to make chlorocarbons, the carbon and chlorine atoms bind to each other by mutually sharing electrons in their outer shells. This arrangement adversely affects human metabolism because our mitochondrial and cellular enzyme systems are designed to completely utilize organic molecules containing carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and other compatible nutritional elements.
“By this process chlorocarbons such as sucralose deliver chlorine directly into our cells through normal metabolization. This makes them effective insecticides and preservatives. Preservatives must kill anything alive to prevent bacterial decomposition.”
Dr. Bowen believes ingested chlorocarbon damage continues with the formation of other toxins: “Any chlorocarbons not directly excreted from the body intact can cause immense damage to the processes of human metabolism and, eventually, our internal organs. The liver is a detoxification organ which deals with ingested poisons. Chlorocarbons damage the hepatocytes, the liver’s metabolic cells, and destroy them.
In test animals Splenda produced swollen livers, as do all chlorocarbon poisons, and also calcified the kidneys of test animals in toxicity studies. The brain and nervous system are highly subject to metabolic toxicities and solvency damages by these chemicals. Their high solvency attacks the human nervous system and many other body systems including genetics and the immune function. Thus, chlorocarbon poisoning can cause cancer, birth defects, and immune system destruction. These are well known effects of Dioxin and PCBs which are known deadly chlorocarbons.”
Dr. Bowen continues: “Just like aspartame, which achieved marketplace approval by the Food and Drug Administration when animal studies clearly demonstrated its toxicity, sucralose also failed in clinical trials with animals. Aspartame created brain tumors in rats. Sucralose has been found to shrink thymus glands (the biological seat of immunity) and produce liver inflammation in rats and mice.
“In the coming months we can expect to see a river of media hype expounding the virtues of Splenda/sucralose. We should not be fooled again into accepting the safety of a toxic chemical on the blessing of the FDA and saturation advertising. In terms of potential long-term human toxicity we should regard sucralose with its chemical cousin DDT, the insecticide now outlawed because of its horrendous long term toxicities at even minute trace levels in human, avian, and mammalian tissues.
Synthetic chemical sweeteners are generally unsafe for human consumption. This toxin was given the chemical name “sucralose” which is a play on the technical name of natural sugar, sucrose. One is not the other. One is food, the other is toxic; don’t be deceived.
Natural Alternatives – Aspartame/Sucralose Free Gum
There are now several chewing gums free of aspartame and sucralose on the market. Some mainstream brands such as Chiclets and Bazooka claim to be aspartame free but still have toxic ingredients and colors. Zapp Gum is another alternative but it still has artificial flavour and toxic soy lecithin. Peppersmith is touted as an all natural gum but contains genetically modified rapeseed lecithin.
[Update, Peppersmith has informed us that their gum is GMO-free. Per the Peppersmith website: “Rapeseed Lechtin- This helps us get an even mix of the ingredients. Again you have to be careful where you get it from; soya is a good source but getting non-GM soya can be problematic as can making sure soya cultivation does not damage rainforest areas. This is why we get ours from GMO free European rapeseed.” We apologize for the error.]
What you need to look for are chewing gums with no artificial preservatives, no artificial flavors, no artificial colors and no artificial sweeteners. Do they exist? Yes. Here are two brands but you can also make your own gum if you are up to the task:
Glee Gum is all-natural, gluten-free chewing gum with no artificial coloring, flavoring, sweeteners nor preservatives. Glee Gum is the only gum in North America made the old-fashioned way using chicle. Chicle is a natural tree sap harvested sustainably from the rainforests of Central America.
Pur gum comes in a couple of different (and yummy) flavors, pomegranate mint, spearmint, and peppermint.
Happy Chewing!
Marco Torres is a research specialist, writer and consumer advocate for healthy lifestyles. He holds degrees in Public Health and Environmental Science and is a professional speaker on topics such as disease prevention, environmental toxins and health policy.
Image: flickr/torbakhopper
Subscribe to Our Newsletter
Email*
Are You a Human? 7 + 1 =
Follow us
Share this article
This Household Item Can Counteract Your Cannabis-Induced Paranoia
Swimming Pool Farms: A Sustainable Revolution
Related Post
4 Nov, 2015
Patriot’s Quarterback Tom Brady Publicly Lashes Out on Junk Food Advertising
17 Apr, 2015
6 Solid Reasons To Eat A Grapefruit A Day
Featured
These Amazing Things Happen to Your Body When You Don’t Drink Alcohol for 28 Days
April 24, 2019
New York Attorney General Sues Opioid Makers and Distributors Purdue Pharma, Sackler Family
April 23, 2019
Whole Foods Brand and Other Bottled Waters Found Contaminated With Dangerous Levels of Arsenic
April 23, 2019
Biotech Giant DuPont’s Gene Shotgun Shoots DNA into Plant Cells
April 19, 2019
Colloidal Silver: Erased From Textbooks Because It Treated Illnesses From Syphilis to Tuberculosis to Ebola
April 17, 2019
Candida Auris: The Silent Superbug That’s Already Too Late to Stop
April 17, 2019
Just One Dragonfly Can Eat Hundreds of Mosquitoes per Day
April 17, 2019
How To Make Ripe Avocados Last
April 17, 2019
Blue Java Bananas Taste Just Like Vanilla Ice Cream
April 8, 2019
Disturbing Truth Exposed: Diapers and Menstrual Pads Laced with Toxic Chemicals
April 3, 2019
Categories
Categories Select Category “Food” to Avoid (403) A Paradigm Shift (850) animals (89) Apartment Gardening (89) Aquaponics (15) Articles (568) Bees (62) Big Pharma (225) Blacksmithing (1) Bonsai (2) Breaking Stories (773) Bug Repellant (34) Canning Your Own Food (7) Chickens (18) Cleaning Products (31) composting (38) Consciousness (328) Detox (64) Diet (199) Do It Yourself (560) Documentaries (18) Edible Yards (178) Farm to Table (179) First Aid (13) Fluoride (38) Fruit (127) GMOs (369) Good Healthy Food (430) Government Watch (514) Greenhouses (33) Grow It Yourself (474) Growing in the Shade (27) Health (1,465) Health and Beauty (178) Healthy Recipes (97) Hemp (40) Herbs (107) Home Building (19) Humor (19) Juicing (32) Laundry (6) Media (274) Medical Marijuana (180) Memes (16) Memory (20) Mushrooms (12) Natural Relief (626) Nature (248) Off Grid (123) Oils (49) Peace of Mind (132) Permaculture (143) Poison (117) Protein (11) Rain Collecting (11) Raised Bed Gardening (40) Repurposing (85) Rooftop Gardening (17) Seeds (59) Sleep (34) Solar (19) Spices (20) Straw Bale Gardening (4) Sunlight (47) Technology (152) Toons (4) Vegetables (167) Videos (642)
© 2019 REALfarmacy.com
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram