Reverse Cavities And Heal Tooth Decay With These 5 Steps – Health and Wellness
Health and Wellness
Health and Wellness
Menu
Home
HEALTH
ALTERNATIVE HEALING
HOME REMEDIES
HEALTHY FOOD
RECIPES
DIET & WEIGHT LOSS
BEAUTY
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
PRIVACY POLICY
Reverse Cavities And Heal Tooth Decay With These 5 Steps
May 26, 2017
ALTERNATIVE HEALING, BEAUTY, HEALTH, HOME REMEDIES, RECIPES
0 Comments
var qs=[]; for(var key in params) qs.push(key+'='+encodeURIComponent(params[key])); var s = d.createElement('script');s.type='text/javascript';s.async=true; var p = 'https:' == document.location.protocol ? 'https' : 'http'; s.src = p + "://api.content-ad.net/Scripts/widget2.aspx?" + qs.join('&'); d.getElementById("contentad130594").appendChild(s); })(document);
Loading...
The breakdown of teeth due to the activity of bacteria which chips away the tooth enamel is called cavities or tooth decay. It can damage the inner layer called dentin and cause damage to the structure of the tooth. Most people try to heal the tooth decay as well as their tooth problems at a dentist, but we’re here today to tell you that you can also reverse cavities and heal tooth decay naturally!
A recent study published in the British Medical Journal claims that cavities can be reversed using a simple dietary change. The study examined 62 children with cavities divided into 3 groups. Group 1 ate standard diet + oatmeal; group 2 ate the same diet + vitamin D supplements, while group 3 was put on a grain-free diet and took vitamin D supplements.
According to the results, the first group had an increase in cavities. The second group fared a bit better, while the last group had the greatest improvements with almost all of the kid’s cavities healed. Many doctors and dentists have backed the findings of the study, so they now claim that a change in your diet can heal tooth decay naturally!
4 things that contribute to tooth decay: lack of minerals, lack of fat-soluble vitamins, consuming too much sugar and consuming foods rich in phytic acid.
Natural ways to reverse cavities and heal tooth decay:
Remove sugar from your diet
This is the most important step! Removing sugar from your diet will reduce the cavities in your teeth significantly. Sugar feeds oral bacteria and prevents a healthy flow of dental fluids. It is also very acidic, which results in demineralization of your teeth and cavities.
Consume nutrient-rich foods
If you want to heal tooth decay and defeat it, you must increase your intake of fat-soluble vitamins and minerals. Try to eat more leafy green vegetables and foods rich in healthy fats (avocado, coconut oil) along with nuts and seeds to create an ideal barrier against tooth decay.
Eliminate phytic acid from your diet
Phytic acid can cause serious health troubles and is often found in grains, nuts and seeds that are not organic or GMO free. It’s a mineral blocker and enzyme inhibitor and it prevents your body from absorbing minerals from your food while leaching them from your bones and tissues.
Try oil pulling
Oil pulling is an ancient technique. It detoxifies your oral cavity. You just have to put a tablespoon of coconut oil in your mouth and swish it for 20 minutes. It can be difficult in the start, so try 3-5 minutes in the first few days and work your way up gradually. This is an amazing technique that can prevent and heal tooth decay, cure gingivitis and even reduce headaches!
Use a mineralizing natural toothpaste
Toothpastes without fluoride are expensive, but there are numerous affordable brands which you can buy. You can also prepare your own toothpaste at home! It’s extremely easy!
Ingredients:
3 tablespoons of food grade diatomaceous earth clay
1/4 teaspoon of baking soda
1/4 teaspoon of mint-flavored chlorophyll
1/4 teaspoon of peppermint extract
1/2 teaspoon of coconut oil
1 tablespoon of filtered water
Mix all the ingredients together and you have your own natural fluoride-free toothpaste! Use these 5 steps today! You can heal tooth decay and reverse cavity! You’ve got nothing to lose!
Loading...
Loading...
(Visited 5,033 times, 13 visits today)
Related
Written by Martin
Related Posts
Read This Article If You Are Drinking Coffee Immediately After You Wake Up
You’re probably one of the many people who can’t start the day properly without drinking…
What Position Of Sleep Reveals About Your Personality
Read this article about your sleeping positions and you will learn new things about yourself.…
This Type Of Honey Is Killing Every Kind Of Bacteria Scientists Throw At It, Even The Super Bugs
While we are all familiar with the many health benefits of the raw, unprocessed honey,…
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Facebook
Popular Posts
No top posts yet
If You Rub A Fresh Cut Tomato On Your Face For 3 Seconds, Here’s The Incredible Effect
Get Yellow Stains Out Of White Clothes Naturally Using This
Random Posts
Removes Toxins From Your Body And Reduces Fat In The Abdomen With This Drink Pineapple Peel
4 Things You Need To Know About Thyroid Cancer
Complete List Of Cancer Fighting Foods
12 “Healthy Habits” You’re Better Off Giving Up
How To Lose 7 Kilos Without Dieting
Popular Posts
No top posts yet
Recent Posts
A Juice That Raise People From The Death, It Has Been A Hit Around The World For Decades And It Only Takes Two Minutes To Make It
July 9, 2017
Rub This Lotion Before Sleeping Every Night And Wake Op With Clean And Fair Skin
July 9, 2017
Alum For Teeth Decay, Hemorrhoids, Acne, Pimples And More
July 9, 2017
This Is The Reasons Why Eggs Are One Of The Healthiest Food On The Planet
July 9, 2017
Why You Must Stop Wearing Your Bra Immediately
July 9, 2017
Health&Wellness