Adolescent Marijuana Addiction Fueled by Multiple Factors – 800 Recovery Hub Blog
Skip to content
Written by people in recovery for people in recovery
800 Recovery Hub Blog
Menu
About 800RecoveryHub & Victoria B.
Learn more
Learn more Select Category Addictions Alcohol Abuse Behavioral Addictions Healthcare Insurance Illegal Drugs Mental Health Prescription Drugs Recovery Hub Resources Sobriety and Recovery Tools
Social
View 800recoveryhub’s profile on Facebook
View 800recoveryhub’s profile on Twitter
View 800recoveryhub’s profile on Instagram
View 800recoveryhub’s profile on Pinterest
Search
Search for:
Adolescent Marijuana Addiction Fueled by Multiple Factors
June 6, 2016 December 5, 2016 by Victoria B., posted in Addictions, Sobriety and Recovery
Adolescent Marijuana Addiction Fueled by Multiple Factors
By: Trey Dyer
Adolescents and young people today live in an age characterized by shifting views on marijuana legality, as well as its potential use for medicinal purposes. More and more states are moving toward marijuana legalization, both recreationally and medically, or decriminalization. With society’s shifting views on marijuana use, and marijuana use arguably more prevalent in popular culture than ever before, adolescent marijuana addiction is also on the rise. Contrary to popular belief by many adolescents, marijuana is both physically and psychologically addicting, and there are a number of factors that contribute to the growing number of young people who become addicted to marijuana.
Teen Marijuana Addiction
According to Monitoring the Future, an annual study conducted by researchers at the University of Michigan, about one in every 16 high school seniors smoke marijuana daily or near-daily. Teens are three times as likely to become addicted to marijuana as adults, and earlier marijuana use among teens can make addiction development more likely later in life.
About 9 percent of users become addicted to marijuana, however 17 percent those who begin using marijuana when they are young and 25 to 50 percent of daily marijuana users develop an addiction to it, according to a study by researchers at the University of Queensland. With wider marijuana legalization and decriminalization, decreasing rates of marijuana use disapproval and perception of risks among adolescents, and increasing availability of more potent marijuana, the risk of marijuana addiction among teens is higher than ever.
Teens View Marijuana More Favorably
The amount of students who perceive regular marijuana use as harmful has declined substantially since 2005 and continues to do so. In the past decade, students who see regular marijuana use as harmful has fallen from 74 to 58 percent among eighth-graders, 66 to 43 percent among tenth-graders , and 58 to 32 percent among twelfth-graders. The percentage of students who disapprove of regular marijuana use is also declining. Twelfth-graders who disapproved of marijuana use reached its lowest rates in 25 years, and the number of tenth- and eighth-graders who disapproved of regular marijuana use were just above all-time lows.
High Rates of Teen Marijuana Use
Since 2010, teen marijuana use rates have remained near all-time highs and do not show signs of slowing down. According to the 2015 Monitoring the Future, 12 percent of eighth-graders, 25 percent of tenth-graders and 35 percent of twelfth-graders reported using marijuana within the last 12 months. Additionally, 1.1 percent of eighth-graders, three percent of tenth-graders and six percent of twelfth-graders reported using marijuana on a daily or near-daily basis.
Marijuana Legalization and Decriminalization
Four states — Colorado, Oregon, Alaska and Washington — have legalized marijuana for recreational use, and 24 states have legalized marijuana for medical use. More and more states are moving toward marijuana legalization both recreationally and medically, with states such as Florida and Ohio even voting on the measure during the 2014 November elections. Within states that have not legalized marijuana, decriminalization is becoming common, and many city and county governments have decriminalized marijuana within their own jurisdiction. While government officials claim that legalization or decriminalization is meant to alleviate harsh legal penalties for non-violent drug offenders, many critics argue that legalization and decriminalization contribute to change in the public’s perception of marijuana and risks associated with its use, thus perpetuating further marijuana addiction.
More Potent Marijuana
Marijuana today, on average, is much more potent than it was 20 years ago, according to Andy LaFrate, founder and director of Charas Scientific, a lab in Colorado that is sanctioned to test marijuana potency. According to LaFrate, marijuana is about three times more potent on average today than it was in the 1980s. THC, the active cannabis chemical responsible for producing euphoric effects, on average had levels of about 4 percent in marijuana in the 1980s. Today the average THC level in marijuana hovers around 20 percent. Consequently, higher THC levels increase the odds of frequent users developing a marijuana addiction, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse.
About the Author
Trey Dyer is a writer for drugrehab.com and advocate for helping those with substance addictions reach recovery. When he is not writing, Trey can be found barbecuing, playing soccer and fly fishing.
Sources:
Budney, A. et al. (2007). Marijuana Dependence and Its Treatment. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2797098/
CBS News. (2015, March 23). Marijuana far more potent than it used to be, tests find. Retrieved from http://www.cbsnews.com/news/marijuana-far-more-potent-than-it-used-to-be-tests-find/
Diller, V. (2013, January 15). Teen Marijuana Use: How Concerned Should We Be? Retrieved from http://www.huffingtonpost.com/vivian-diller-phd/teen-marijuana-use_b_2468667.html
Hall, W. & Degengardt, L. (2009, October 17). Adverse health effects of non-medical cannabis use. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19837255
Johnston, L. et al. (2015, September 1). Daily marijuana use among U.S. college students highest since 1980. Retrieved from http://www.monitoringthefuture.org/pressreleases/15collegepr.pdf
Johnston, L. et al. (2015, December 16). Use of ecstasy, heroin, synthetic marijuana, alcohol, cigarettes declined among U.S. teens in 2015. Retrieved from http://www.monitoringthefuture.org/pressreleases/15drugpr_complete.pdf
National Conference of State Legislatures. (2016, May 26). State Medical Marijuana Laws. Retrieved from http://www.ncsl.org/research/health/state-medical-marijuana-laws.aspx
National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2014, January). Principles of Adolescent Substance Use Disorder Treatment: A Research-Based Guide. Retrieved from https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/principles-adolescent-substance-use-disorder-treatment-research-based-guide/frequently-asked-questions/it-possible-teens-to-become-addicted-to-marijuana
Shapiro, S. (2015, January 7). So you think marijuana isn’t addictive. Retrieved from http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/opinion/commentary/ct-addict-marijuana-legalize-dylan-cheech-chong-perspec-0108-jm-20150107-story.html
The California Courts. (n.d.). Addiction. Retrieved from http://www2.courtinfo.ca.gov/stopteendui/teens/resources/substances/marijuana/addiction.cfm
Do you know someone who needs to see this? Share it!
Facebook
Twitter
Tumblr
LinkedIn
Pinterest
More
Email
Print
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Tagged Addiction, Addiction treatment, Marijuana, Marijuana Addiction, Medical Marijuana, Sobriety and Recovery
Post navigation
Previous post7 Approaches to Treatment We’re Thankful No Longer Exist
Next postDenial And Lying In Addiction And Recovery
7 thoughts on “Adolescent Marijuana Addiction Fueled by Multiple Factors”
Daisy in the Willows says:
June 6, 2016 at 2:51 pm
The weed you talk about is usually not grown naturally and mixed with other things to get people hooked. Pure Ganja grown in places like Africa have many health benefits. When we out the black market and invest in pure weed – then we will see changes. This is just my opinion. I think the drugs teenagers get on the black market are cut with so much rubbish -it is no wonder they become highly addicted very quickly and develop mental health issues
LikeLike
Reply
inmycorner says:
June 6, 2016 at 6:33 pm
I have seen many students suffer the bad effects of marijuana addiction. It is very sad. I have to get them to stop smoking weed before I can even begin to teach them. I’ve always said smoking weed before school is like shooting yourself in the foot and then trying to run a marathon.
LikeLike
Reply
Victoria B. says:
June 6, 2016 at 6:47 pm
Thanks for sharing your experience. You have a lot of insight being a teacher. I used to have “no opinion” about pot smoking. But, now it’s constantly showcased as “cool” and “no big deal”. It seems really easy for high school kids to get marijuana. The potency is also an issue.
LikeLiked by 1 person
Reply
inmycorner says:
June 6, 2016 at 6:51 pm
I am in full agreement with you. It is not the same weed of the 1960’s. Sadly, I don’t think there is anything we can do to prevent legislation from passing – only educate our children that just because something is legal, doesn’t mean it is safe.
LikeLiked by 1 person
larrypaulbrown says:
June 6, 2016 at 10:10 pm
I’m a lot older and much less idealistic than when I was in my active addiction. I truly believe we need to change our focus from drug enforcement to behavior rehabilitation. As long as we have a user demand, addiction will be a problem. Take everything off the “illegal” list and put all that money into rehabilitation.
LikeLiked by 1 person
Reply
hawkhamilton says:
June 7, 2016 at 4:55 am
I was glad to see this article as most people in the UK are under the misconception that marijuana is not addictive. Having seen evidence of it first hand and seen several case studies, I think that people need to be made more aware of the dangers.
LikeLike
Reply
Victoria B. says:
June 7, 2016 at 9:49 am
In the United States, Colorado was the first state to legalize marijuana. It created a “case study”. For example, I have a friend who grew up in Colorado. She moved away several years ago. She went back to visit a few months ago and could not walk downtown with her nine year old. What used to be a family style main street was filled with people smoking pot on the sidewalk. It’s a total double standard. What cute little main street would let people loiter about drinking beers and smoking hookah pipes? She said that people were so smug about the new law, they just had to display the pot smoking so all could see.
LikeLiked by 1 person
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
I’m on Facebook – join me!
I’m on Facebook – join me!
My recent tweets
My Tweets
Popular Articles
Social
View 800RecoveryHub’s profile on Facebook
View 800RecoveryHub’s profile on Twitter
View 800recoveryhub’s profile on Instagram
View 800recoveryhub’s profile on Pinterest
Categories
Categories Select Category Addictions Behavioral Addictions Illegal Drugs Prescription Drugs Alcohol Abuse Mental Health Recovery Hub Resources Healthcare Insurance Sobriety and Recovery Tools
Subscribe to get my new posts!
RSS - Posts
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
Search for:
Top Three Viewed Posts
AA Big Book Myths Tidbits and Trivia
Is “Celebrate Recovery” A Good Alternative to 12-Step Programs?
Why Your Sobriety Dates Are Important
Create a website or blog at WordPress.com
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: