Can HIV be transmitted through sweat or urine?
Are you a Doctor?
Login
Register
Facebook
Twitter
Toggle navigation MENU
My Dashboard
My Transactions
Services
Testimonials
Doctors
Topics
Blog
Ask a Doctor Now 132 Doctors Online
search
Register for a New Account as a
×
User
Doctor
Your Name :
Your e-mail :
Password :
Confirm Password :
Your information is secure
I Agree to Terms & Conditions
Remember me
Register Already registered? Login
Your Name :
Your e-mail :
Continue Already registered? Login
Sign-in to HealthcareMagic
×
Your e-mail :
Password :
Remember me
Forgot password?
By proceeding further you accept the Terms and Conditions
Login
OR
Sign in with Google
Don't have account? Register
Get your health question answered instantly from our pool of 18000+ doctors from over 80 specialties
Write your health question
Choose a specialty
Pay & get an answer
132 Doctors Online
Ask a Doctor Now
MD
Dr. Andrew Rynne
Family Physician
Exp 50 years
I will be looking into your question and guiding you through the process. Please write your question below.
A Doctor will be with you shortly
Hi, I am Dr. Rohit Batra (Dermatologist). I will be looking into your question and guiding you through the process. Please write your question below.
Premium Questions Home Ask an HIV AIDS Specialist
Can HIV be transmitted through sweat or urine?
Answered by
Dr. Tushar Kanti Biswas
Internal Medicine Specialist
Practicing since :1975
Answered : 1631 Questions
Ask me a question
Posted on Tue, 27 Oct 2015 in HIV and AIDS
226282
Question: HI Doctor,
My dad is infected with HIV, around 4/5 months back. i confused his under pants for mine and i wore it. Is there any risk of infection. However i got a rapid test and it says negative. is that alright?
what is the maximum window period, after exposure for virus to reflect in test.
Is it possible that, for virus to reflect in test after years. and one last thing we use to share drinking glass. is there anything to be worried about ? is there any specific precaution to be taken?
Answered by Dr. Tushar Kanti Biswas 1 hour later
Brief Answer:
Transmission of HIV from close relative
Detailed Answer:
Hi,
Thank you for your query. I can understand your concerns.
Although virus can be identified, if not isolated, from virtually
any body fluid, there is no evidence that HIV transmission can
occur as a result of exposure to sweat, or urine which can soil an under pant of HIV infected individual and then shared by care giver or other member of family by mistake.
However there have been isolated cases of transmission of HIV infection by body fluids that may or may not have been contaminated with blood.
3 months is the maximum window period between infection and the development of antibodies to HIV (detection by ELISA).
In patients in whom HIV infection is suspected (as you are concerned about your possible exposure to body fluid with garments), the appropriate initial test is the
EIA (enzyme immunoassay). If the result is negative, unless there is strong reason to suspect early HIV infection (as in a patient exposed within the previous
3 months), the diagnosis is ruled out and retesting should be performed
only as clinically indicated.
The sensitivity and specificity of Rapid HIV-1 antibody test
is ~99% when run on whole blood.Negative results from this test are adequate to rule out a diagnosis of HIV infection.
HIV will not take years to reflect in test.
Precaution:
A close relative living together & providing nursing care for an HIV-infected person should observe universal precautions, in the handling of body fluids and wastes from HIV infected individuals.
Regards
Dr. T.K. Biswas M.D. XXXXXXX
Above answer was peer-reviewed by : Dr. Raju A.T
The User accepted the expert's answer
Ask an HIV AIDS Specialist
Share on
Question is related to
Diseases and Conditions Early hiv infection, HIV
Lab Tests Elisa, Immunoassay
Recent questions on Immunoassay
How can chronic painful swelling in the joints be treated?
MD
I've had joint pain several years along with joint swelling, swollen joints. My family Dr did blood test my ANA positiv,cpr high, sed rate 45. I gave mouth sores and buturfly rash .
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
What does my HIV test report indicate?
MD
I just took my yearly hiv test and I don t know what generation it is or if its a good test ? ABBOTT HIVAB HIV-1/HIV-2 (rDNA) EIA
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
Can Gabapentin cause a false positive for cocaine in urine test?
MD
A 50 year old female friend who is an RN recently went to a neologist he gave her a urine test that was OK. he gave her a Rx for Gabapentin because she was complaining about body aches and soreness. 3 days later at work she got a random urine test...
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
Does HIV tests at an early stage detect the virus? Is symptoms of flu related to HIV?
MD
Hi Doc
Hope u r fine and doing well.
Its been 2 weeks that i was exposed to unprotected sex. It was just for 4 minutes with a female [vaginal intercourse]. Then i went to wash room and washed myself.
I came back and was worried for an HIV infection. Went to doctor and he advised me HIV screening [elisa], Hepatitis B & Hepatitis C test. All came negative on 3rd day.
Then after 9 days i felt flue symptoms. So i called the lady and did her HIV [elisa method] test. That also came negative.
After 2 weeks today again i made my ARCHITECT HIV Ag/Ab Combo assay is a chemiluminescent microparticle immunoassay (CMIA) test and its 0.33 [negative].
But i m having flue and sore mouth, anxiety, pain in head and stomach? Please help me why flue, head ach, pain in stomach and sore mouth has started just after 2 weeks of exposure?
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
Will protective latex condom save me from STDs?
MD
hello, iam 35 years old , 168 cm tall , 80 kg weight , gender ..male
i had sex with a lady using a protective latex condom 2 weeks ago , and then i get a flu like symptoms on the third day after the sexual intercourse so i get worry so i did nuleic acid testing ( NAT -Testing ) on day twelve as well as antibody detection using immunoassay technique and both came negative for HIV . Is this enough or i have to repeat it later. note ... i also did CBCD which is normal as well.
thank u
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
Is my hbsag and hcv antibody test normal?
MD
dear doctors
today i made hbsag and anti hcv antibody test i am worried about the result. kindly advise filoowing are the results
hbsag.............non reactive (0.98)
cut off index for nonreactive hbsag.....................2
methed micro[aricle enzye immunological(meia) 3r generational
Anti hcv antibody ..............reactive (12.0)
cut of index for nonreactive nti hcv antibody ...............1
method chemiluminescent immunological immunoassay (CMIA)
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
Is the HIV tests done by immunoassay perfect?
MD
goodafternoon sir this quesition is to get my self clear .i will be getting married soon so just wanted to confirm that . i did my hiv test thru immunoassay after 6 months which was negative after my last inter course so can i consider my self hiv negative and move on an.
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
People also viewed
Foul smelling urine and hiv
Ketone in urine hiv
Hiv urine smell
Urine from urinals hiv
Frequent urination in persons with hiv
All the information, content and live chat provided on the site is intended to be for informational purposes only, and not a substitute for professional or medical advice. You should always speak with your doctor before you follow anything that you read on this website. Any health question asked on this site will be visible to the people who browse this site. Hence, the user assumes the responsibility not to divulge any personally identifiable information in the question. Use of this site is subject to our Terms & Conditions
Ask a Doctor Online
Ask a Specialist
Health Questions and Answers
Health Resources
Browse Health Indexes
Recently Updated Questions
Contact us
FAQs
In the News
Advertise with us
Privacy Policy
Sitemap