Hope For Millions Who Suffer From Arthritic Pain
Home
Business
Real Estate
Finance
Healing
Insurance
Internet
Legal
Medical
Technology
Writing-speaking
Stats
Contact Us
Best Useful Articles
Hope For Millions Who Suffer From Arthritic Pain
An expert network of doctors and research scientists is forming the world's first national centre for research into understanding pain in arthritis. Backed by medical research charity the Arthritis Research Campaign and The University of Nottingham, it will aim to improve treatments for arthritis - the most common cause of chronic pain - which affects more than ten million people in the UK. The charity has awarded funding of Â 2.5m over five years and the University itself has pledged a further Â 3m to support the Nottingham-based Arthritis Research Campaign National Pain Centre investigating mechanisms of pain in arthritis. Key partnerships with local NHS Trusts will further strengthen the new venture.
MedImmune Highlights Inflammatory Disease Portfolio At 73rd Annual Meeting Of The American College Of Rheumatology
MedImmune announced that researchers will present data on several inflammatory disease programs at the annual meeting of the American College of Rheumatology, from October 17 to 21, 2009 at the Pennsylvania Convention Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. "Through our research into novel disease pathways involved in autoimmune disorders, we continue to fulfill our mission of using scientific excellence to deliver life-changing medicines for patients with rheumatic diseases, " said Anthony Coyle, PhD., vice president, head of respiratory, inflammation, and autoimmune disease research. "Representing some of our most recent progress, we are pleased to share data relevant to the development of new therapies for conditions such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, and scleroderma.
Discovery Lays Groundwork For Better Understanding Of Protective Human Microbes In The Gut
Medical researchers have long suspected that obscure bacteria living within the intestinal tract may help keep the human immune system in balance. An international collaboration co-led by scientists at NYU Langone Medical Center has now identified a bizarre-looking microbial species that can single-handedly spur the production of specialized immune cells in mice. This remarkable activation of the immune response could point to a similar phenomenon in humans, helping researchers understand how gut-dwelling bacteria protect us from pathogenic bacteria, such as virulent strains of E. coli. The study, published in the Oct. 30, 2009, issue of Cell, also supports the idea that specific bacteria may act like neighborhood watchdogs at key locations within the small intestine, where they sense the local microbial community and sound the alarm if something seems amiss.
Study Results Suggest Oral Salmon Calcitonin Using Eligen R Drug Delivery Technology May Reduce Cartilage And Bone Degradation In Osteoarthritis
Emisphere Technologies, Inc. (OTCBB: EMIS) announced study results in which twice-daily oral salmon calcitonin using Emisphere's proprietary Eligen® Drug Delivery Technology significantly suppressed markers of cartilage and bone degradation versus placebo in men and women with osteoarthritis, the most common form of arthritis. The study, a Phase I, placebo-controlled, double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, gender-stratified clinical trial, was conducted on behalf of Emisphere's partner Novartis Pharma AG by Nordic Bioscience, and published online in the September 2009 issue of Osteoarthritis and Cartilage. A total of 73 male and female subjects aged 57 to 75 years with painful osteoarthritis of the knee received twice-daily 0.
Trial Raises Doubts Over Alternative Pain Therapy For Arthritis
Copper bracelets and magnetic wrist straps are ineffective in relieving arthritis pain, according to a new study led by a University of York academic. Researchers conducted the first randomised placebo-controlled trial on the use of both copper bracelets and magnetic wrist straps for pain management in osteoarthritis -- the most common form of the condition. The devices are used worldwide for helping to manage pain associated with chronic musculoskeletal disorders. The results of this trial conflict with those from previous studies, by showing that both magnetic and copper bracelets were ineffective for managing pain, stiffness and physical function in osteoarthritis.
Biomedical Research Centre Searches For Immunological Biomarkers
Persistent inflammation and the activation of the immune system is the key pathological mechanism affecting many long-term conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, ulcerative colitis, and Crohn's disease and is the predominant mechanism underlying organ transplant rejection. But the molecular and cellular processes triggering these inflammatory and immune responses remain little understood. A group of London-based researchers hope that by extending understanding of the biological processes, they will be able to identify 'biomarkers' in the tissue and blood, which in future could be used to diagnose these conditions, to predict how they will develop and how an individual will respond to treatment.
Flexcin Offers Tell-Tail Signs That Your Dog Has Pet Arthritis
Like humans, dogs can also get painful pet arthritis throughout their bodies. But unlike people, who can simply talk about what hurts, how can you spot when your furry little friend has arthritis? Flexcin, the maker of FlexPet dog arthritis treatment, offers these four tell-tail signs so you can bring relief to your pet. 1) No Longer Running & Jumping: Dogs are active animals, even as they age. Running and jumping around are two simple activities enjoyed by happy and healthy dogs. If your dog stops running and jumping, this is the first major sign your pet may have dog joint pain. 2) Difficult Walking Up Stairs: Many homes are built to have multiple levels.
Second Phase Of Patient Reported Outcomes Initiative Launched By NIH
The National Institutes of Health has announced that it is awarding 15 new grants to further develop and test the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS). Managed by the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS), PROMIS aims to revolutionize the way patient reported outcome tools are selected and employed in clinical research and practice. PROMIS utilizes advances in computer technology and modern measurement theory to assess outcomes such as pain, fatigue, and other aspects of quality of life in a standardized manner. An important goal of the initiative is to develop valid and reliable clinical instruments that will allow the measurement of patient-reported symptoms more efficiently and effectively.
Research Findings Aim To Improve The Lives Of Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients
The American College of Rheumatology Research and Education Foundation announced that findings through a new research program focused on rheumatoid arthritis have yielded results that will soon alter medical evaluation and management of patients. Highlights of the recent research findings will be presented during a special session on Sunday, October 18, at the American College of Rheumatology Annual Scientific Meeting in Philadelphia, Pa. More than 1.3 million Americans suffer from rheumatoid arthritis, which is the most common forms of inflammatory arthritis. New therapies and advances in genetics, proteomics, pharmacology and genomics have led to major progress in recent years however the cause for, and cure of, RA are currently unknown, and without specialized treatment, bones erode and joints develop deformities.
UNC's Thurston Arthritis Research Center Wins Multiple Awards At ACR Meeting
The Thurston Arthritis Research Center at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine garnered numerous research and teaching awards at the recent meeting of the American College of Rheumatology annual scientific conference held Oct. 15-17 in Philadelphia. Thurston is home to huge data sets from ongoing longitudinal studies, including the Johnston County Arthritis Project, that attract top researchers, and faculty are looking at novel areas, including tai chi and the effects of selenium on arthritis. To address clinical needs, and facilitate the translation of research to patient care, the center recently opened a new infusion clinic for rheumatology patients and joined a statewide family practice network to extend its reach and amplify its expertise.
Page: [01] [02] [03] [04] [05] [06] [07] [08] [09] [10]
Fast: [10] [20] [30]
Alternative
Drug Abuse
Allergies
Arthritis
Back Pain
Beauty
Aerobics Cardio
Skin Care
Cholesterol
Medicine
Depression
Diabetes
Eating Disorders
Health Insurance
Hearing
Heart Disease
Diseases
Home Health Care
Menopause News
Mental Health
Nutrition
Fitness Equipment
Pain Management
Physical Therapy
Anti Aging
Sleep Snoring
Quit Smoking
Health and Fitness
Women's Issues
Commitment
Communication
Love
Singles
Acne
Build Muscle
Dental Care
Ears Hearing
Ergonomics
Exercise
Eyes Vision
Hair Loss
Healing Arts
Massage
Meditation
Obesity
Popular Diets
Speech Pathology
Supplements
Weight Loss
Yoga
Kids and Teens
Women's Interests
Arts and Entertainment
Astrology
Humanities
Humor
Movies TV
Music
Performing Arts
Philosophy
Photography
Poetry
Tattoos
Best Useful Articles © Dimitrov Dmitriy
Designer Dimitrov Dmytriy