Quit hamming it up so much | Glenda Bartosh on Food | Pique Newsmagazine | Whistler, CANADA
Switch to the mobile version of this page.
Pique
News
A&E
Opinion
Food & Drink
Features & Images
Events
Sports
Classifieds
Browse News
Whistler
Sea to Sky
Regional
Police Briefs
Politics
Environment
Mountain News
Tourism
Bear Update
Budget 2016
Election 2018
Submit a News Tip
News Archives
Standout
Browse A&E
Arts
Music
Film
Festivals
Theatre
Book Reviews
Listings
A&E Archives
Browse Opinion
Letters to the editor
Editorial
Maxed Out
Eco Logic
The Outsider
Range Rover
Pique'n yer interest
Dot Comrade
Odd Job
Science Matters
Gwynne Dyer
Pique Blog
Submit a Letter to the Editor
Opinion Archives
Whistler Past Tense
Cybernaut
Browse Food & Drink
Epicurious
Glenda Bartosh on Food
The Velocity Project
Anthony Gismondi on Wine
Chef's Choice
Food News
Whistler Restaurant Listings
Food & Drink Archives
Browse Features & Images
Feature Story
Museum Musings
Travel
Partial Recall
Horoscopes
Whistler 2020
Mountain Mythic
Pique Giveaways
Browse Images
Browse Digital Version
Features Archives
Browse Events
Music Listings
A&E Listings
Food & Drink Listings
Events & Festivals
Mountain Listings
Sports Listings
Community Listings
Conference Listings
Submit an event
Browse Sports
Upcoming
Results
Features
Columnists
Sports Calendar
Sports Archives
Browse Classifieds
Whistler Jobs
Long Term Accommodation
Short Term Accommodation
Vacation Rentals
Seeking Accommodation
Real Estate
Wanted - Misc
Automotive
Marketplace
Garage Sales
Home Services
Business Services
Health and Wellbeing
Community Listing
Education
Highway 99
Weather
Avalanche Advisory
Youtube
Username /
View Profile /
Edit /
Log Out
Log in /
Create Account
October 29, 2015 Food & Drink » Glenda Bartosh on Food
Quit hamming it up so much
WHO study links processed meats to cancer
By Glenda Bartosh
click to enlarge
My dear hubby is pretty astute when it comes to healthy — and tasty — eating. For instance, he's been insisting for years it's sugar that's so bad for us, not fat (more on that next week).
But one thing he and I have disagreed about for years is his predilection for all things cured. I should say all meats cured, as in dried, smoked and/or salted meat. From prime hams and Ukrainian sausage to Polish sausage, Jadgwurst, Hunter's sausage (a kind of kielbasa made with juniper berries) and Italy's salami and capocolla — you name it. If it's meat and it's cured and it comes from a good European deli, 10 to one he'll love it.
This he comes by naturally, for his mom is from Poland while his dad was from Latvia, so cured meats were a mainstay growing up. And while I can't dispute they're wonderfully tasty and handy — too handy for a quick protein fix — I've been trying to get him to cut back on them for years, partly to save my own (ahem) bacon because when they're in the house I can't resist them, and partly to save his because my amateur sleuthing concluded years ago they really aren't good for us.
Now I have a new argument in my arsenal. A ground-breaking study done by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), WHO's cancer research agency, has concluded that processed meats, which includes things like bacon, smoked sausages and hams, are not only not good for us, they cause cancer in humans.
WHO now ranks processed meats in the same carcinogenic category as tobacco, asbestos and diesel fumes. (Note, that while processed meat has been classified in the same category it doesn't mean they're all equally dangerous. The IARC classifications describe the strength of the scientific evidence about an agent being a cause of cancer, not the level of risk.)
The study, released Oct. 24, examined the cancer risks for red meat and for processed meats. Red meats include beef, veal, pork, lamb, mutton, horse and goat. Processed meats are defined as meat "that has been transformed through salting, curing, fermentation, smoking, or other processes to enhance flavour or improve preservation."
Most processed meats, the study notes, contain pork or beef, but processed meats may also contain other red meats, poultry, offal or meat by-products such as blood. Examples include weiners, ham, sausages, corned beef, and biltong or beef jerky as well as canned meat and meat-based preparations and sauces.
While the agency could reach no conclusion regarding the carcinogenic effects of red meat alone — it's considered a "probable" carcinogen due to its links to colon, pancreatic and prostate cancer — it was clear that processed meats do increase your chances of getting colorectal cancer.
A 50-gram portion of processed meat eaten daily increases the risk of colorectal cancer by 18 per cent. Processed meats are also linked to stomach cancer.
Fifty grams in real time translates to two slices of side bacon, one good slice of ham, or two and a half slices of balogne. As for the 18 per cent increased risk factor, it means that if 61 people out of 1,000 are going to get colon cancer, as statistics indicate in the U.K., then you would expect 66 people out of 1,000 who eat a lot of processed meat to get it.
"For an individual, the risk of developing colorectal cancer because of their consumption of processed meat remains small, but this risk increases with the amount of meat consumed," says Dr. Kurt Straif, head of the IARC Monographs Programme, in the agency's press release.
"In view of the large number of people who consume processed meat, the global impact on cancer incidence is of public health importance."
The IARC Working Group of 22 experts from 10 countries considered more than 800 studies that investigated associations of more than a dozen types of cancer with the consumption of red meat or processed meat in many countries and populations with diverse diets (this by way of silencing those who have called the study "baloney"). The most influential evidence came from large prospective cohort studies conducted over the past 20 years. A summary of the final evaluations are available online in The Lancet Oncology.
"These findings currently support public health recommendations to limit the intake of meat," says Dr. Christopher Wild, a director at IARC. Given the importance of red meat's nutritional value (it's high not only in protein but in nutrients like iron and zinc as well), the information will help governments and regulatory agencies assess the pros and cons of eating red meat and processed meat, and how to transfer that to policies and education.
Other scientists have also noted the study is important in helping us, the average Jill or Joe, in making choices in our diets. In a CBC News report, Sian Bevan, director of research at the Canadian Cancer Society, urges us to limit red meat to about three servings per week and to really be careful and avoid processed meat, saving it for "particular occasions if you're to consume it."
Got that? Keep the ham and sausage and bacon for special occasions and cut your red meat consumption, presuming you're a meat eater, to three times a week.
One more thing: the other carcinogenic factor studied by the IARC was how we cook our meat. If you're a big barbecue fan, you aren't going to like this but you knew it was coming.
Although results are not fully conclusive since there aren't enough data, scientists know that cooking at high temperatures or with the food in direct contact with a flame or a hot surface, like barbecuing or pan-frying, produces more of certain types of carcinogenic chemicals, such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. So you might want to be a little more measured with your grilling operations, too.
While I'm not necessarily advising this, I just want you to know that my Auntie Claire, who was also Polish and lived to a ripe old age, boiled everything she ate in plain water, including meat.
What I mean to remind us all is moderation in all things, and there are alternatives. So you'll have to excuse me now — I need to go make some noodles for my husband and I for dinner.
Glenda Bartosh is an award-winning journalist who's been cutting back on her meat eating for years.
Tags: Glenda Bartosh on Food
Share
Tweet
Email
Print
More Glenda Bartosh on Food »
Comments
Subscribe to this thread:
By Email
Subscribing…
With RSS
Comment
Add a comment
Subscribe to this thread
Readers also liked…
When the fork is mightier than the sword
Food activists, meet Food Day Canada
by Glenda Bartosh
Aug 2, 2018
The Moment /
Popular /
Commented
April 21, 2019, 7:00 AM
Charting long-term change in Whistler lakes
Researcher seeks locals' stories about Lost Lake, Alta Lake More...
April 20, 2019, 4:30 PM
Wide range of comments heard on Official Community Plan
New Strategic Planning Committee to address growth management More...
April 20, 2019, 7:30 AM
Indigenous health initiative goes viral
Poster for a new program aimed at Southern Stl'atlimx communities goes viral More...
April 15, 2019, 8:00 AM
Sometimes you want to go where Stinky knows your name
Longtime local bartender Jeremy Peterson plans to open new restaurant, Stinky's on the Stroll, next month More...
April 16, 2019, 12:00 PM
Eat your buckwheat, Buckaroo!
Another Canadian special worth a second look More...
April 19, 2019, 12:00 PM
Seven vendors slated for Whistler's summer food-truck program
RMOW program launches June 28 with block party in Upper Village More...
April 15, 2019, 8:00 AM
Sometimes you want to go where Stinky knows your name
Longtime local bartender Jeremy Peterson plans to open new restaurant, Stinky's on the Stroll, next month More...
April 16, 2019, 12:00 PM
Eat your buckwheat, Buckaroo!
Another Canadian special worth a second look More...
April 19, 2019, 12:00 PM
Seven vendors slated for Whistler's summer food-truck program
RMOW program launches June 28 with block party in Upper Village More...
Latest in Glenda Bartosh on Food
Eat your buckwheat, Buckaroo!
Another Canadian special worth a second look
by Glenda Bartosh
Apr 16, 2019
Contending with oily situations
Go 'canola' or go home!
by Glenda Bartosh
Mar 30, 2019
Worth a second look: Barley!
An ancient grain so good, you'll wonder why it's not king in your kitchen
by Glenda Bartosh
Mar 19, 2019
More »
More by Glenda Bartosh
Eat your buckwheat, Buckaroo!
Another Canadian special worth a second look
by Glenda Bartosh
Apr 16, 2019
Contending with oily situations
Go 'canola' or go home!
by Glenda Bartosh
Mar 30, 2019
Worth a second look: Barley!
An ancient grain so good, you'll wonder why it's not king in your kitchen
by Glenda Bartosh
Mar 19, 2019
More »
Features & Images
April 21, 2019
Whistler Mountain Ski Club marks 50 years
Club has played essential role in developing ski-racing over half a century More.
Sports
April 21, 2019
Armistead wins age group in Utah
Whistler runner places eighth overall at Zion 100 Ultra Marathon More.
Opinion
April 20, 2019
An East Alps sojourn: part 1
More.
A&E
April 20, 2019
Anonymous Art Show sells $10K worth of art on opening night
More.
Food & Drink
April 19, 2019
Seven vendors slated for Whistler's summer food-truck program
RMOW program launches June 28 with block party in Upper Village More.
Events
Wed., April 24, 8-11 p.m.
Dave Hartney
@ Mallard Lounge
Canadian country music singer from North Vancouver, B.C. The past few summers Dave has played... More.
Features & Images
April 21, 2019
Land of Tigers—A Wildlife safari through India's national parks
More.
Music
April 18, 2019
On the road again
Former Whistlerite Jeremy Thom making in-roads in New Zealand music scene More.
Pique'n Yer Interest
April 20, 2019
Bursting the bubble
More.
About Us |
Distribution Points |
Contact Us |
Subscriptions |
Copyright & Privacy |
FAQ - Whistler |
Jobs @ Pique
© 1994-2019 Pique Publishing Inc., Glacier Community Media
- Website powered by Foundation