How Long Does Morphine Stay in Your System, Blood, Urine?
Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888)-459-5511
Menu
Addiction Guides
Addiction Facts
What is Addiction?
Recognizing Addiction
Drug Abuse Statistics
Substance Abuse Triggers
Polydrug Use: Get the Facts
Drug Testing
Addiction Stories
Meth Addiction Stories
Heroin Addiction Stories
Gambling Addiction Stories
Marijuana Addiction Stories
Cocaine Addiction Stories
People at Risk
College Students abd Drug Abuse
Dual Diagnosis
Teenagers and Students
Veterans and Addictions
PTSD and Addiction
Self-Assessment
Substances
Alcohol Addiction
Effects of Alcoholism
Alcoholism Treatment
Alcoholism Recovery
Alcoholism Resources
Street Names of Addictive Substances
Understanding Drugs
Types of Drugs
Illicit Drugs
Marijuana
Crystal Meth
Spice
Cocaine
Crack
GHB
Amphetamine
Speed
Prescription Medication
Ambien
Ketamine
Vicodin
Gabapentin
Accutane
Provigil
Morphine
Zoloft
Prozac
Trazodone
Barbiturates
Fioricet
Stimulants
Nicotine
Adderall
Kratom
Ecstasy
Ritalin
Benzodiazepines
Valium
Restoril
Midazolam
Librium
Klonopin
Halcion
Ativan
Xanax
Hallucinogens
LSD
AL-LAD
Peyote
DMT
Ayhuasca
Shrooms
Opioids
Opiates
Heroin
Opium
Opana
Suboxone
Vicoprofen
Methadone
Fentanyl
Dilaudid
Demerol
Codeine
Tramadol
Oxycodone
Hydrocodone
Norco
Percocet
Sedative-Hypnotics
Lunesta
Sonata
Other Substances
Sleeping Pills
OTC Drugs
Diet Pills
Inhalants
Painkillers
Narcotics
Antidepressants
NPC
Anxiety Medication
Cyclobenzaprine
Lexapro
Baclofen
Vyvanse
Phenibut
Kava
Treatment Guides
Treatment Stages
Addiction Treatment: the Overview
1 ► Intervention
2 ► Inpatient and Outpatient Therapy
3 ► Lifelong Commitment
Treatment for Substance Abuse: An Overview of Addiction Recovery Programs
Resources
Relapse Prevention Plan
Support Groups: An Overview
When a Loved One Has an Addiction
Drug Addiction Medications
Addiction and Rehab Hotlines
Find AA meetings
Find NA Meetings
Addiction Treatment Facility Locator
Rehab Guides
Facilities
Best Drug Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Outpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Drug Rehabs Near You
Outpatient Rehabs Near You
Types
Court Ordered Rehabs
Free and State Funded Rehabs
Rehabs for Veterans
Dual Diagnosis Rehabs
F.A.Q.
Rehab Question Answered
Can I Beat an Addiction On My Own?
How Long Does Rehab Take?
Medicaid and Medicare
Addiction Recovery Costs
Substances
LSD Rehab
Heroin Rehabs
Cocaine Rehab
Crystal Meth Rehab
GHB Rehab
Ecstasy Rehab
About Us
Our Community
Scholarship
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Addiction Treatment Events
How Long Does Morphine Stay in Your System?
Free 24/7 rehab helpline > (888)-459-5511
How Long Does Morphine Stay in Your System?
Morphine is the most common form of analgesic opiate present in opium. The drug is a potent pain reliever. However, many people use it for recreational purposes. It is highly addictive, and its physical dependency can lead to substance abuse. Health professionals often use Morphine for pain management in terminal cancer patients. The street names for this drug include First Line, Mister Blue, God’s Drug, Morpho, Unkie, MS, Dreamer, and Morph. Once a person ingests the drug, it readily enters the blood stream and moves to the brain, hence activating the opioid receptors for exerting the medication’s effects.
Morphine has different time ranges for effectiveness and presence in the human body. Generally, the drug has a short half-life of 1.5 to 7 hours and exits the body pretty quickly, but certain factors can impact the time Morphine stays in your body.
Dose of the Drug
Morphine is available in different varieties. You can find it in the purest form i.e. Morphine itself, as well as other modified forms like Roxanol, MSContin, Avinza, Dover’s Power, Laudanum, etc. Many ask “If I take a smaller dosage, how long does morphine stay in my system, then? The dosage can dictate how long Morphin stays in your system i.e. the higher the dosage, the longer it will stay in your system and vice versa.
Type of Screening Test
Not all screening tests provide the same results. Some tests can detect Morphine in your body for up to 3 months while others only detect for a few hours.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
Physiological Factors
Physical factors influence how fast a body will excrete Morphine out of its system. For example:
Metabolism Rate: A body having a fast metabolism will discharge the drug faster.
Age: As we age, our metabolism rate slows down. Therefore, younger adults excrete Morphine faster than older ones.
Body Size: Morphine stays for a longer period in a body that has more fat. That’s because the body mass slows down the metabolism rate.
The frequency of Drug Intake: It will be easier to detect the remains of a drug in a frequent user’s system for a longer span.
What the short answer to “How long does Morphine stay in your system?” is that it can have its effects for two to seven hours. However, as each human being has a different anatomy, the results may differ. Also, the detection window can be different depending on the type of the drug test.
How Long Does Morphine Stay in Urine?
If you are a smoker, the detection time of Morphine in urine can be for 1 to 2 days. If your metabolism rate is low, it may stay for three days. On the other hand, if you are a frequent user, the detection time can be 5 to 6 days.
How Long Does Morphine Stay in Blood?
Morphine has the shortest detection window in a blood test. It is important to take the blood sample at the spot because of the half-life effect of the drug. Usually, Morphine can be detected for 12 hours in the blood after ingestion.
How Long Does Morphine Stay in Hair?
Morphine has the longest detection window in a hair test. It can last for 80 to 90 days. As the effects of the drug appear on the scalp after 5 to 10 days of consumption, therefore, the hair samples are taken after 5 to 10 days of drug ingestion. This drug test is quite costly, and the testing procedure itself is complicated. Therefore, health professionals or court officials will not use this test for detecting Morphine in the body. Scientists may use this test, but for research only.
How Long Does Morphine Stay in Saliva?
A saliva test can only detect Morphine remains within the first 5 hours of the last dose. The saliva test is also very uncommon because of its short detection window.
When does Morphine Start Working?
The time it takes for Morphine to work depends on the dose and the form of Morphine ingested.
If a user takes the drug intravascular, the drug can start working immediately and reaches its peak within 2 to 3 minutes.
If a user takes it intramuscular, it can start working within 15 minutes after administration and can reach its peak after 45 minutes.
If a user consumes it in oral form, it can start working in 15 to 20 minutes after administration and may reach its peak after 45 minutes.
If a user takes it in sustained form for around the clock care, it can start working in 30 to 45 minutes after administration and reaches its peak in 60 to 90 minutes.
How to Excrete Morphine out of Your System Fast?
If you wish to push Morphine and its remains out of your system fast, the following can help:
Hydrate: Drinking lots of water is the key. It will flush out Morphine and its contents from your body quickly. Furthermore, it will dilute the urine sample. So, if you have a drug test coming up, drink lots of water a day before the test. This trick will help mask your sample. It’s recommended to take Vitamin B supplement 24 hours before the test to make the urine sample yellowish.
Urinate: The first urine of the day will have a larger quantity of Morphine remains. Drinks that initiate urination can help expedite the flushing of Morphine out of the body. Such drinks include cranberry juice, coffee, and tea.
Exercise: We all know that those who have a fast metabolism excrete the remains of most of the drug faster. So, boosting up the function of your body with exercise can help eliminate the traces of Morphine faster.
Other than this, you can always stop the consumption of the drug till the test as the more Morphine you consume, the longer it will stay in your body.
Conclusion
Now you know the answer to “How long does Morphine stay in your system?” Here are a couple of important things you must consider if you’re taking Morphine. Morphine depresses the respiratory system and slows down the heart rate. If dangerous interactions happen, it can lead to coma. Don’t drink alcohol or use any medication containing alcohol when you are taking Morphine. If you have a history of respiratory troubles, avoid Morphine in the first place. Do not start or stop taking Morphine without a doctor’s consultation.
How Long Does Morphine Stay in Your System?
4.3 (86.67%) 3 votes
Addiction Resource » Addictive Substances: The Anatomy of Drug Addiction » Morphine Addiction and Treatment » How Long Does Morphine Stay in Your System?
Comments 3
Suzy
September 23, 2017 at 8:47 am Reply
I took a drug screen and it said I was positive for morphine. I don’t take any drug that is not prescribed to me and morphine is not prescribed to me. How could this happen? The samples had to be mixed up or something. I take Opana for my pain.
Please help me understand.
Crystal
November 6, 2018 at 2:43 pm Reply
It’s called a false positive. I was kicked out of pain management because of this. I filed a grievance against the doctor, and it was investigated and I was found innocent and I was put back on pain management you need to file a grievance because Labs make mistakes good luck.
Ken
March 10, 2019 at 8:18 pm Reply
How long do 30mg of mophine stays in your unrine.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Free 24/7 Treatment Helpline
(888)-459-5511
Speak confidentially with a compassionate counsellor.
Feel hope
without commitment.
Morphine Addiction Resources
Morphine Addiction: Overview
Morphine Street Names
How Long Does Morphine Stay In Your System
Morphine High
Morphine Withdrawal
Morphine Substance Interaction
Morphine Side Effects
Morphine Addiction Signs
Morphine Overdose
Morphine Street Prices
Morphine Dosage
Morphine Addiction Treatment
Drug Rehab Resources
Best Rehabs
Local Rehabs Locator
Free Rehabs
Court-Ordered Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs
Outpatient Rehabs
Jewish Rehabs
Veterans Rehabs
Holistic Rehabs
LGBT Rehab Centers
Dual Diagnosis Rehab Centers
Alcohol Hotlines
Rehab Hotlines
Luxury Rehabilitation
Private Rehabs
Christian Rehabs
Women-Only Rehabs
Men-Only Rehabs
Rehabs for Couples
Family Rehabs
Teen Rehabs
State-Funded Rehabs
No-Insurance Rehabs
Executive Rehabs
Resort Rehabs
Drug Rehab Information
Speak to a representative concerning substance abuse treatment or request printed material on alcohol or drugs.
(888)-459-5511
The information available at AddictionResource.com is not a substitute for professional medical help.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here
© 2014 - 2019 Addiction Resource
Terms And Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
About Us
➤