23 Natural Ways How To Lose Belly Fat Fast for A Slimmer Stomach
facebookpinterestgooglepltwitterfeed
Health
Foods for Beauty
DIY Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Free Ebooks
Fat Decimator Report
Go
Search and hit
< Prev Post Top 20 Natural Herbs For Weight Loss That Work Fast
Next Post > Top 5 DIY Skin Care Ingredients You Should Never Use
Health & Wellbeing
360 216
23 Natural Ways How To Lose Belly Fat Fast for A Slimmer Stomach
Home
Health & Wellbeing
By Beauty Talk
June 18, 2016
Beauty Talk
CONTENTS
1. Reduce Sugar
2. Lemon
3. Apple Cider Vinegar
4. Fish Oil
5. Mint
6. Ginger Tea
7. Oolong Tea
8. Cranberry Juice
9. Detox Tea
10. Sleep Well
Abdominal fat or belly fat mention to the deposit of excess fats around the abdomen or stomach area. This may result in very embarrassing situations such as unable to adjust the seat in a plane, an odd look in any outfit, belly bulging out of buttons, being a victim of bullying of friends or colleagues. In addition to a social stigma, this problem also relates to many health problems such as cardiovascular diseases, hormonal disorder, blood sugar, Alzheimer’s disease, and other vascular and metabolic diseases. It is not able to burn off fats of a determined body area because the body tends to burn off fats from the whole body. However, it isn't very hard to find the solution for this problem. Today, Beauty Talk will give you top 23 natural ways how to lose belly fat fast for a slimmer stomach at home. You should have a look at this article to discover more about these ways because they are really helpful for you when you want to reduce your belly fat.
Top 23 Natural Ways How To Lose Belly Fat Fast for A Slimmer Stomach
1. Reduce Sugar
Reducing sugar is the first tip on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach that I want to show you in this article! A lot of people who suffer from belly fat always crave for all things related to sugar. Sugar is one of the main causes of getting belly fat. Apart from sugar, other things such as beer can also cause fat buildup in the belly. While intake of fatty foods and sugar were fine during old times when people had to work hard, but in both women and men always want to sit their seats until late nights, it is not advisable and very dangerous.
2. Lemon For Burning Belly Fat
Lemons contain a lot of essential nutrients. This fruit is rich in vitamins C, B-complex vitamins, iron, calcium, magnesium, fiber, and potassium. It can aid in cleansing and improving your overall health.
You should use lemon juice to detoxify your liver because a stressed liver is not able to metabolize fat well so that it will get deposited around the waistline. Lemon water is very excellent in increasing enzymes that help to detoxify the liver so that it can carry out its primary functions properly.
Here are two methods with lemon on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach.
Method 1: Lemon water
Ingredients:
A lemon
1 cup of warm water
Directions:
Firstly, take the juice from this lemon and then mix it with warm water.
Now, drink this water when your stomach is empty.
You should not drink or consume anything for at least half an hour after drinking this solution.
Have it daily.
Method 2: The combination of lemon juice, nectar, & dark pepper powder for a slimmer stomach
While you should have a cup of lemon water in the early morning, you may also have another glass of lemon water after lunch or in the evening. There is no damage in the situation you drink this 2 times per day.
Ingredients:
4 tablespoons of lemon juice
1 teaspoon of nectar
1 teaspoon of dark pepper powder
1 glass of tepid water
Directions:
Firstly, add lemon juice, nectar, and dark pepper powder to the glass of warm water.
Then, mix them well with a spoon.
Finally, have this lemon water for a few times.
3. Apple Cider Vinegar For Slim Belly
Don’t pass apple cider vinegar if you are looking for useful ways on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach at home. Apple cider vinegar contains corrosive acid that helps you to dispose of belly fat. This corrosive substance will guarantee better assimilation of protein for the most part, which is vital for the development hormones in the body. Development hormone is the best medium that may break down the fat cells. This will keep your digestion system working properly when you are dozing or resting. By empowering to use iron in the body, apple cider vinegar helps to expend vitality. Expending vitality is equivalent to burning fat.
Ingredients:
1 to 2 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar
1 glass of water
Directions:
Firstly, add apple cider vinegar to the glass of clean water.
Then, use a spoon to stir them together and have this water.
You should drink this solution before your dinners.
Have it for 3 times per day.
4. Fish Oil
Fish oil contains omega-3 fatty acids, such as icosapentaenoic acid, linolenic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid, which help to break down fat and reduce fat storage around the waistline. If you cannot take fish oil, you should eat fish rich in these fatty acids, such as tuna, salmon, and halibut.
According to a 2007 study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, fish oil and exercise are very beneficial in breaking down body fat effectively. Overweight people who suffer from high cholesterol were given six grams of tuna per day for 3 months. Moreover, they also walked for about 45 minutes per day. After 3 months, the results showed decreased triacylglycerols, a fatty acid in charge of the hardening of arteries; fish oil and exercise were independently shown to lose body fat. Fish oils also aid in reducing blood sugar levels, as claimed by the NIH (National Institute of Health). When the levels of blood sugar are high, the body will produce insulin that prevents fat loss. By decreasing the levels of blood sugar, fish oils aid in preventing a surge of insulin present in your body further help in fat loss. So, stick to fish oil, if you want to discover ways on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach.
Ingredients:
1 tablespoon of 6 gms of fish oil
Fishes
Directions:
You need to take fish oil every day.
Another option is to eat fish for 2 times per week.
5. Mint For Losing Belly Fat
Mint is also known as a mitigating herb that does help to lose your belly fat well by discharging extra bile from your gallbladder. As you know, bile helps your body to process fat. Mint tea is very low in calories, with 2 calories per 1 cup of tea. However, 1 cup of fruit soda contains 101 calories, which means drinking soda instead of mint tea may increase the total calorie consumption by 99 calories. And this is about 5 percentages of the daily calorie amount for people who have a diet with 2,000 calories per day. In turn, consuming mint tea instead of fruit soda twice per week for 1 year can help you to lose about 3 pounds of body weight.
Here are two methods on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach by incorporating mint into your daily diet.
Method 1: Use mint leaves to make ketchup or chutney
Ingredients:
2 tablespoons of mint leaves
10 to 12 curry leaves
2 tablespoons of coriander leaves
1 teaspoon of stew powder
1 to 2 teaspoons of lemon juice
A squeeze of salt
Directions:
Firstly, mix mint leaves, curry leaves, and coriander leaves.
Then, use a processor; make a glue with these leaves. If needed, add a little water to it.
Now, add bean stew powder, salt, and lemon juice to this mint chutney.
Dip this mint chutney alongside your dinners or use it as a spread.
Have this chutney with your dinners during the day.
You should make this crisp chutney in the morning so that you can use it during the day.
Method 2: Peppermint tea
Ingredients:
1 tablespoon of fresh or dried mint leaves
1 mug of water
1 to 2 teaspoon of nectar
Directions:
Firstly, heat up the water.
Then, add mint leaves to the water and allow it to soak for about 5 minutes.
After that, strain it and add nectar to this tea. Avoid using sugar.
Finally, have this tea for 2 times per day.
6. How To Lose Belly Fat Naturally & Fast With Ginger Tea
As you know, ginger is considered a natural digestive aid and it is also a thermogenic agent. Thermogenic agents will increase the temperature of your body, thus, helping to burn off fat more effectively. The belly fat may result from a lot of reasons such as overeating, lack of exercise, stress, or reduction of a hormone related to age. Ginger may practically deal with each of these problems. In addition, ginger also helps to suppress the production of cortisol, a steroid hormone necessary for energy mobilization and regulation. So, having ginger tea daily is one of the effective ways on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach.
Ingredients:
to 2-inch ginger piece
1 tablespoon of honey
A lemon
4 cups of clean water
A teapot
Directions:
At first, boil water for a few minutes and then add ginger to it.
Next, allow it to simmer for about 5 to 10 minutes and then take it off from the stove.
Now, add squeeze the juice from a lemon and then add this juice and honey to it.
Finally, stir them well and drink it as the first thing in the early morning.
You should have it for at least 2 to 3 cups during the day.
7. Lose Stomach Fat With Oolong Tea
This is a strategy used by Chinese girls for getting a thinner body, especially the slimmer belly. Oolong tea belongs to the Camellia sinensis plant, which includes green and dark tea. This tea is more successful in enhancing your digestion system than green tea is. If you need a method how to lose belly fat to get slimmer belly, you can drink Oolong tea because this tea can boost up the use of your body’s energy. In addition, when you mix oolong tea with green tea, you may have better results!
Ingredients:
1 teaspoon of oolong tea or 1/2 teaspoon each of oolong and green tea
Boiling water
1 teaspoon of nectar
Directions:
Firstly, if you use both Oolong and green tea, blend them well.
Then, add these tea leaves to a glass.
Now, pour boiling water over it and allow it to soak for 2 to 3 minutes.
After that, strain this tea and then add nectar to it.
Finally, have this tea for 2 to 3 times per day.
8. How To Lose Belly Fat Naturally & Fast Cranberry Juice
Cranberries are rich in organic acids including quinic acid, citric acid and malic acid, which play a role as digestive enzymes. These organic acids will operate as emulsifying agents on fat deposits in your body’s lymphatic system, which will transport the waste products when your liver is not able to process them. Cranberry juice will digest these lymphatic wastes and also help you to reduce fat. Therefore, drinking or cranberry water or 100% cranberry juice (unsweetened) is another useful way on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach.
Ingredients:
1 cup of cranberry juice (unsweetened)
7 cups of water
Directions:
Firstly, add cranberry juice to water and mix them together.
Now, drink 1 cup as the first thing in the early morning and continue drinking it throughout the day.
Or, you can also prepare cranberry water by combining cranberry juice (2 tablespoons) in 1 cup of normal water.
9. Make A Detox Tea For A Slimmer Stomach
This is an Ayurveda detox tea in Ancient India. This tea helps to detoxify the body, which will aid in breaking down stubborn fat. After this detoxification of the body, your liver may work better in order to metabolize fat. Here is a formula for preparing a detox tea. You need to make this tea in the morning and have it throughout the day.
Here is a recipe to make a detox tea that is also another method on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach.
Ingredients:
1/2 teaspoon of cumin seeds
1/2 teaspoon of fennel seeds
1/2 teaspoon of coriander seeds
5 glasses of water
A bottle flask
Directions:
At first, heat up the water in the morning.
Then, add cumin seeds, fennel seeds, and coriander seeds to the bubbling water.
Now, keep it bubbling for about 5 minutes and then spread this pot when the water bubbles.
After that, strain the tea and then pour it into this canteen cup
Finally, drink this detox tea during the day.
You should drink it when it is hot or warm. Never have cool tea.
10. Sleep Well
In fact, there is a link between sleeping well and buildup of fat in your stomach.
Lack of sleep will result in stress and release stress hormones known as cortisol. Cortisol is a naughty hormone that leads to belly fat in a lot of people. Hence, to stay healthy and slim, sleep patterns are also very important. Find relaxed surroundings to indulge good sleep and ensure that there are no disturbances and external stimulants that tamper with your sleep. Avoiding stress in your life is an important thing because of the same reason. As you know, a stress-free life makes sure that you are having a healthy body and mind that is free from stomach fat and diseases.
11. Chia Seeds For Slimmer Belly
If you are a vegetarian and cannot eat fish to get the required amount of omega-3 fatty acids per day, you can consume chia seeds that are also high in omega-3, and this is a plant having the best source of these fatty acids. However, the body needs to work to convert this alpha- linolenic acid present in chia seeds into EPA or DHA that comes from fish oil. In addition to omega-3 fatty acids, chia seeds are a great source of antioxidants, iron, dietary fiber, and calcium, which helps you to feel fuller for a longer time. According to “The Aztec Diet”, a diet book, having 4 to 8 tablespoons of chia seeds per day keeps you less hungry and prevents you from overeating. Moreover, you should include 1 tablespoon of these seeds in your daily diet.
You can add chia seeds to your smoothies, yogurt, soups, salads, or breakfast cereals and then stir them well to have this. You should eat this regularly to reduce belly fat.
Learn more: 30 Tips On How To Get Rid Of Dark Lips Fast & Naturally At Home
12. Triphala For Reducing Belly Fat
This is another of the best ways on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach. This method uses Triphala that is a mixture of Haritaki, Bibhitaki, and Amalaki. Amalaki is the Indian gooseberry that is very rich in vitamin C, an amazing natural agent preventing cancer. It diminishes the body aggravation and expands lean body mass. It aids in keeping up solid glucose levels in order to evade hunger strings. Besides, Haritaki draws out poisons from the body while Bibhitaki reduces the aggregation of liquids and fat in the body. You can find Triphala powder in the natural wellbeing stores offering Ayurvedic items or purchase it online.
Ingredients:
1/2 teaspoon of Triphala powder
1 teaspoon of ground flaxseed
1 teaspoon of psyllium husk without flavor
1 glass of warm water
Directions:
Before going to sleep for 30 to 60 minutes, add Triphala powder to warm water and drink this solution after mixing them together.
You can add psyllium fiber to this mixture if you have the bad effects of blockage. This helps you in discharging solid simply and evacuating any poisons that stick to the intestinal linings.
Or, you might use flaxseed powder for an added assistance of cancer prevention agent.
Have Triphala powder regularly to lose your belly fat.
13. Garlic For Burning Fat
Garlic is very good for your cardiovascular system because it reduces triglycerides, diastolic & systolic blood pressure while increasing good cholesterol. Additionally, garlic also owns excellent anti-obesity properties! Every minute the body cells die and the body will make new cells in order to replace them. Adipocytes, called fat cells and lipocytes, are the cells in the body that primarily compose adipose tissue. In this adipose tissue, there is a process where pre-adipocytes are transformed into fat or full-fledged adipose tissue. This process is called adipogenesis. According to studies, garlic inhibits this process of making fat or the process of angiogenesis. To understand more easily, garlic stops the pre-fat cells from transforming into fat cells. Therefore, you ought to add garlic to your daily diet. But raw garlic is more effective when you want to reduce belly fat!
Ingredients:
3 garlic cloves
A lemon
1 cup of water
Directions:
Firstly, squeeze the juice from a lemon and then add it to the cup of clean water.
Then, stir them well and have it.
You may chew a few raw garlic cloves and drink the lemon water when your stomach is still empty.
Do this method every morning to see a change in 2 weeks.
If you want to discover more ways on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach, continue reading the next part of this article!
14. Curry Powder For Stomach Fat
After each meal, you feel full, but not satisfied, you tend to eat more. Your dinners should have all the flavors such as sweet, salty, acrid, astringent, impactful, and sharp. This is important on the grounds that that body is fulfilled only when you provide for the tastes it needs. You will quit eating when you feel full. And curry powder holds all the tastes. You may make curry powder yourself at home and store it to use it when you cook. You can even use this powder as a topping or sprinkle it on the greens and vegetables. The flavors that are used to make curry powder boost up assimilation and help to dissolve fat. Therefore, don’t skip this powder if you are looking for a method on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach.
Ingredients:
5 teaspoons of coriander seeds
1 teaspoon of fenugreek seeds
1/2 teaspoon of cumin seeds
A narrows leaf
1 and 1/2-inch stick of cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon of mustard seeds
5 cloves
2 teaspoons of turmeric powder
Directions:
At first, add the first six ingredients to an espresso processor.
Then, add turmeric powder to this flavor mixture.
Now, use a little this curry powder for your flavor, curries or other available dishes. You may add it to a salt shaker to store it and spit it on the feasting table to add it to your greens.
15. Lose Stomach Fat With Cinnamon
In fact, the sweet flavor of cinnamon will not increase your fat. Instead, cinnamon will help you to reduce the overall body fat consisting of the stomach fat. Cinnamon is actually a thermogenic agent, which means that cinnamon has a tendency to produce heat through the metabolic stimulation. Hence, cinnamon makes you burn off fat. You should include 1 teaspoon of ground cinnamon in your daily diet to increase your metabolism. Remember t take ground cinnamon instead of the cinnamon bark oil that may result in ulcers, mouth burning, and mouth sores. Cinnamon is also a spice that you often cook with any food.
Ingredients:
Cinnamon
Tea or coffee
Toast
Salads or sauces
Boiling water
Breakfast cereal
Different ways to add cinnamon to your diet:
Pour 1 teaspoon of ground cinnamon in drinks such as tea, coffee, or milk and stir them well.
Sprinkle cinnamon on the top of a muffin or some toast.
Add ground cinnamon to your salads, sauces, or dips.
Include cinnamon powder in your breakfast cereal.
Directions: Make cinnamon tea
Firstly, take 1 to 2 teaspoons of cinnamon powder or a cinnamon stick.
Then, add it to a cup and then pour boiling water into this cup.
Now, let it steep for a few minutes and add a tea bag to it.
After that, take out the bag after 4 to 5 minutes and strain the tea.
Finally, add honey to this tea and drink it.
Have this tea for once or twice per day.
16. Aloe Vera Juice For Thinner Belly
Being a miracle herb, aloe vera has various health benefits. One of its benefits is that it helps to lose your belly fat. It is also a good cancer prevention agent. Using aloe vera juice regularly builds the digestion system that helps you to decrease fat in the muscles. In addition, it also detoxifies your framework by purifying the digestive framework and further reducing weight. Aloe vera has gentle purgative impacts, so you should control the amount you take daily. Mixing aloe vera juice with a few herbs will give you a great formula listed in the top ways on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach!
Ingredients:
30 grams of aloe vera juice
3 grams of terminalia chebula powder
3 grams of cumin seeds powder
3 grams of turmeric powder
3 grams of tinospora cordifolia powder
1/2 glass of warm water
1 teaspoon of nectar
Directions:
At first, mix aloe vera juice with the remaining herb powders in tepid water.
If you want to a sweet solution, add nectar to it.
Now, blend them well and drink it in the early morning when your stomach is empty.
After drinking aloe vera juice, don’t eat anything for 1 hour.
See more: 16 Natural Face Saving Remedies To Get Smooth Facial Skin
17. Herbal Treatment For Burning Fat
There are many herbs that you use daily in your cooking, but you do not know their effects on the body fat. Some of these herbs contain ginger, cucumber, and mint. These herbs when mixed with the lemon, an excellent fat burner, can do wonders of losing belly fat. Cucumber contains water and dietary fiber, which makes it a great food to reduce stomach fat. It also cleanses your body from the deep inside and aids you in losing weight. Besides, ginger is also a wonderful fat burner that makes the blood vessels expand resulting in better blood circulation. Moreover, it boosts up your metabolism. According to a study, people who consume ginger may reduce 20% more weight than those who don’t consume it. Thanks to its rich content of antioxidants and vitamin C, lemon not only enhances your energy but also burns off fat while mint calms down your cravings and soothes stomach after you eat foods. Finally, water helps you to stay hydrated and the flavored water also detoxifies your body. Therefore, here is the recipe that is listed in the ways on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach.
Ingredients:
A medium cucumber
10 to 12 sprigs of mint leaves
1 teaspoon of grated ginger
A lemon
2 liters of water
Directions:
At first, cut lemon and cucumber into slices.
Then, pour all these above ingredients to water.
Now, stir them well and allow it to soak for overnight.
Finally, drink this water during the day.
Repeat this method regularly.
18. Green Tea For A Flat Belly
According to studies, drinking four cups of green tea per day helps you to lose more than 6 pounds within 8 weeks. Green tea has epigallocatechin-3-gallate, a type of catechin. Green tea is a natural antioxidant and phenol with many therapeutic properties. When you drink green tea, epigallocatechin-3-gallate in it boosts up your metabolism. Have 3 to 4 cups of this tea daily. Make this tea fresh every time or can store it in the fridge to get a cool green tea each time when you need to enhance your metabolism.
Ingredients:
1 to 2 teaspoons of green tea leaves or a tea bag
1/2 to 1 teaspoon of lemon juice
5 mint or basil leaves
1 cup of hot water
A little honey (optional)
Directions:
At first, take green tea bag or green tea leaves and basil or mint leaves.
Then, add them to a cup of boiling water and stir them well.
Now, cover this cup and allow it to steep for 7 to 10 minutes.
After that, strain the tea and then add lemon juice & honey to it.
Finally, mix them well and drink this tea.
Have it for 3 to 4 times per day, preferably after your meals.
19. Almonds
Including almonds in your daily diet is one of other effective ways on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach. Almonds are very high in fats and contain a powerhouse of important supplements such as magnesium, Vitamin E, fiber, and protein. When you take enough protein, you build up the lean bulk, which will help you to burn off fat. The mono-unsaturated fats in almonds aid in getting fit and in losing body mass index. In addition, these almonds are good for people with diabetes and heart infections because they decrease awful cholesterol and balance glucose. Therefore, don't worry and you can take almonds every day. However, over-abundance of anything will be awful. So, have 1 handful of them, about 10 to 20 almonds for daily, not more than this. Moreover, avoid having the sugar covered or browned ones. Instead, have plain or cooked almonds!
Different methods to add almonds to your diet:
Take 6 to 8 almonds and soak them in water for overnight and eat them as the first thing in the early morning.
Or, you can take a few almonds and add them to your morning breakfast or include them in your orange blend, greens, apples, and porridge.
20. Celery For Losing Weight
Celery is very low in calorie. In addition, it also has vitamin C and calcium, which is a perfect combination to help in losing weight. A cup of chopped celery contains only 16 calories, which is only 1 percentage of the daily limit on a 1,500-calorie diet. A large celery stalk contains just 10 calories. However, boiled celery has more calories, at about 27 calories a cup, and this percentage is still less than 2 percentages of your daily calorie amount on a 1,500-calorie daily diet. Cutting down calories is very necessary for losing weight, and replacing foods higher calories with celery assists you in lowering your intake of calories to reduce weight. In addition, celery is also high in fiber, a sort of carbohydrate that can help to control your appetite. Fiber absorbs water to aid in filling your stomach, and foods rich in fiber have a tendency to require more chewing. Therefore, you have to slow down and savor the foods instead of chowing down fast and accidentally consuming too much.
Besides, it also contains apigenin that helps to decrease the risk of ovarian cancer in women. Including celery in your diet is another way on how to lose belly fat to get slimmer stomach.
Have celery or other leafy vegetables.
Drink 1/2 cup of celery juice before your meals.
Include celery in your soups and other foods.
21. Limit Consuming Alcohol
Alcohol has seven calories a gram, almost double the four calories a gram of protein and carbs and only two calories short of the nine from fat. However, unlike carbs, fat, and protein from whole foods, alcohol does not give any feelings of satiety. Therefore, you are likely to drink the calories apart from the calories you are eating. It is not only the calories in alcohol that cause disruptions in losing weight but also the calories coming from mixers such as soda and sugary syrups. If a 4-ounce cup of red wine has 95 calories, a margarita contains a whopping 550 calories. This is almost half of the entire calorie budget per day if you are on a 1,200-calorie diet.
In addition, alcohol tends to lower inhibitions, which makes you more likely to eat more foods that you have to stay away from if you are trying to reduce weight. You can start out with great intentions, but after a few cups of drinks, a pizza and the French fries tend to break down your original plan.
Drinking alcohol also inhibits the way the body burns off fat, an important factor to successful weight loss. Usually, your liver metabolizes fat calories, which allows you to use these for energy. When you take alcohol, fat metabolism will take a back-seat to break down the alcohol. So, instead of taking fat for energy, the body will turn to the huge calories from the alcohol. That causes an accumulation of fatty acids and may hinder weight loss.
To lose belly fat fast, what you drink is also as vital as what you consume. Forget drinking beer and sweet alcohols very day if you want to lose your belly fat. People who drink beer always own a pear shape, especially when they get older. In addition, alcohol also stresses the liver that has to overwork to draw the harmful toxins out of your body.
If you want to learn more about natural home remedies & beauty tips for body issues, go to our main Health & Wellbeing page. After reading the article of top 23 natural ways how to lose belly fat fast for a slimmer stomach, I hope that it can help you find out the best methods to reduce your belly fat quickly. If you have any question, or you know other ways on how to lose belly fat to get a slimmer stomach, please leave them below.
Reference:
http://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/health-topics/weight-control/myths/Pages/weight-loss-and-nutrition-myths.aspx
https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/WeightLoss-HealthProfessional/
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2831987/
http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/obesity-prevention-source/obesity-causes/sleep-and-obesity/
Body care
Fitness
Herbal beauty
Related Articles
You May Like This
Top 24 Tips How To Get Rid Of Chickenpox Scars Naturally & Fast
18 Ways How To Prevent Dry Skin In The Cold Winter Naturally
13 Bad Beauty Habits That Are Giving You Wrinkles
Top 4 Simple Ways On How To Get A Tan Fast And Safely At Home
10 Best Ways On How To Get Rid Of Grey Hair In Eyebrows & Beard Without Dye
11 Benefits Of Honey With Lemon On Health, Hair, And Skin
Also on BeautyTalk.com
To Lose Weight, Don’t Skip List Of 18 Cheap Healthy Foods For Weight Loss & Energy!
22 Best Natural DIY Facial Hair Removing Tips
Top 17 Ways How To Get Straight Hair Naturally Without Heat
Top 15 Foods That Cause Weight Gain
Top 26 Ways On How To Get Long Hair Fast
12 Amazing Tips On How To Tighten Belly Skin Naturally & Fast
Top 9 Common Foods That Cause Eczema Outbreaks Or Make It Worse
Top 36 Natural Home Remedies For Blackheads On Face And Nose
20 Useful Ways How To Get Rid Of Chubby Cheeks Naturally
Do You Know How To Remove Unwanted Hair On Body Naturally? – 22 Easy Ways
5 Comments Join the Conversation →
[fbcomments]
facebookpinterestgooglepltwitterfeed
THE COMMUNITY
BeautyTalk
POPULAR ON SOCIAL
63
Shares
10 Of The Most Unusual Ways On How To Treat Herpes Naturally At Home
58
Shares
What Is Gingivitis, Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, & Prevention
56
Shares
13 Amazing Ways On How To Boost Your Metabolism Naturally & Fast
38
Shares
26 Proven Home Remedies For Eczema On Scalp, Face, Body In Adults & Children
29
Shares
Top 5 Natural Home Remedies For Dark Lips Due To Smoke In A Week
18
Shares
Say Goodbye To Dull Nails With 17 Tips How To Get Shiny Nails Naturally
11
Shares
Top 20 Natural Home Remedies For Herpes On Lips
9
Shares
23 Natural Ways How To Lose Belly Fat Fast for A Slimmer Stomach
7
Shares
Top 22 Natural Home Remedies For Dry Cracked Hands That Work Well
3
Shares
Top 10 Proven Home Remedies For Angular Cheilitis Infection That Work Naturally
View more in
TRENDING THIS MONTH!
21 Ways On How To Reduce Breast Size Naturally & Fast
20 Useful Ways How To Get Rid Of Chubby Cheeks Naturally
23 Natural Ways How To Lose Belly Fat Fast for A Slimmer Stomach
Top 24 Ways How To Get Rid Of Ingrown Hairs Fast & Naturally
Top 15 Ways On How To Remove Corns On Feet Naturally
20 Ways On How To Get Rid Of Body Odor Fast And Naturally
WHAT’S NEWS
Top 8 Tips On How To Dry Your Nail Polish Faster
18 Right Ways On How To Gain Weight Fast & Safely For Women & Men
21 Proven Home Remedies For Cysts In Breast, On Face, Head, Or Neck
What Causes Oily Skin On Face During Pregnancy? 12 Best Treatments & Prevention Tips
Top 9 Tips On How To Remove Gel Nail Polish From Nails, Clothing, & Furniture
YOU MAY ALSO LIKE
Top 12 Ways On How To Get Rid Of Gingivitis Naturally & Quickly
16 Most Effective Home Remedies For Hidradenitis Suppurativa (Acne Inversa) That Work Naturally
23 Natural Ways How To Lose Belly Fat Fast for A Slimmer Stomach
18 Best Home Remedies For Fever Blisters
What Causes Oily Skin On Face During Pregnancy? 12 Best Treatments & Prevention Tips
21 Proven Home Remedies For Cysts In Breast, On Face, Head, Or Neck
26 Proven Home Remedies For Eczema On Scalp, Face, Body In Adults & Children
Top 8 Tips On How To Dry Your Nail Polish Faster
Top 15 Ways How To Get Rid Of A Swollen Lip Fast & Naturally
Top 25 Ways On How To Get Rid Of Foot Odor Naturally & Fast
About Us
Contact Us
Request An Article
Terms Of Use
Privacy Policy
BeautyTalk Magazine covers everything related to health, skin & hair care, DIY beauty recipes, foods for beauty, makeup, and organic beauty talk
BEAUTYTALK
. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Popular
Latest Posts
5
Health & Wellbeing
20 Useful Ways How To Get Rid Of Chubby Cheeks Naturally
5
Health & Wellbeing
Top 23 Natural Home Remedies For Impetigo In Adults & Children
5
Health & Wellbeing
What Is Gingivitis, Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, & Prevention
Foods for Beauty
7 Best Ways To Use Coconut Oil For Psoriasis Treatment
Skin Care
Top 5 Things That Cause Men’s Wrinkles & How To Reduce/Prevent Them?
Hair Care
How To Use Rice Water For Hair – 2 Simple And Easy Methods To Try
Anti-aging
Body care
Body masks
Dental care
DIY hair care
DIY skin care
Eye beauty
Face Masks
Fitness
Foods for healthy hair
Foods for healthy skin
Herbal beauty
Lips
Makeup
Nails
Pimples
Scalp issues
Scars
Skin whitening
BeautyTalk Magazine covers everything related to health, skin & hair care, DIY beauty recipes, foods for beauty, makeup, and organic beauty talk
BEAUTYTALK
. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
↑