We address false claims made by Angelina Jolie's doctor, Dr. Kristi Funk
One-Time
Recurring
In Tribute
Planned Giving
≡
Hereditary Cancer Info
Research & Clinical Trials
How to Help
Get Support
Advocacy
About Us
Hereditary Cancer
Hereditary Cancer & Genetics
Genetic Testing for Hereditary Cancer
Genes Associated with Hereditary Cancers
Who Should Consider Testing?
Genetic Counseling & Risk Assessment
Talking With Your Family
Cancer Risk
Breast Cancer
Ovarian & Related Cancer
Pancreatic Cancer
Prostate Cancer
Other Cancers
Risk Management
Risk Management Guidelines
Breast Cancer Screening
Breast Cancer Chemoprevention
Mastectomy
Ovarian Cancer Screening
Ovarian Cancer Chemoprevention
Surgical Removal of Ovaries & Tubes
Pancreatic Cancer Screening
Prostate Cancer Screening
Breast Reconstruction And Going Flat
Reconstruction Overview
Types of Reconstruction
Nipple & Areola
Preparation and Recovery
Insurance Coverage
Surgeon Referral Tool
Post Mastectomy and Reconstruction Photos
Going Flat After Mastectomy
Menopause
Menopause Overview
Symptoms and Long Term Effects of Menopause
Hormone Replacement
Cancer Treatment
Types of Treatment for Cancer
Breast Cancer Treatment
Ovarian Cancer Treatment
Pancreatic Cancer Treatment
Prostate Cancer Treatment
Chemotherapy
PARP Inhibitor Therapy
Immunotherapy
Tumor Testing
Fertility & Family Planning
Fertility Preservation and Assisted Reproductive Technology
Fertility in People Diagnosed with Cancer
Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis
BRCA & Infertility
Adoption
Nutrition & Lifestyle
Overview
Diet & Nutrition
Supplements
Exercise
Body Image & Intimacy
Finding Specialists & Paying for Care
Finding Specialists
Paying for Genetic Services
Paying for Cancer Screening and Prevention
Paying for Cancer Treatment
Health Insurance Appeals
Surgeon Referral Tool
Privacy & Legal Issues
Types of Legal Protections
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA)
Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA)
Genetic Privacy Laws
Women's Health and Cancer Rights Act of 1998
Americans with Disability Act (ADA)
Family and Medical Leave Act
Complaints and Rights Violations
Special Populations
Cancer Previvors
Breast Cancer Survivors
People with Metastatic Breast Cancer
Ovarian Cancer Survivors
People with Pancreatic Cancer
Jewish People
Men with Mutations
Post Mastectomy Photo Gallery
XRAYS: Making Sense of Cancer Headlines
KNOW MORE: Ovarian Cancer
FORCE Blog
FORCE Brochures
FORCE Videos
Annual Conference
Be Empowered Webinars
Frequently Asked Questions
Enroll in Research
Featured Research
Before You Search for Studies
Begin Your Search
Join the ABOUT Network
Research Findings
Research Advocate Program
Donate
Fundraise
Volunteer
Empower
Receive Personalized Guidance
Find Local Support
Visit Our Message Boards
Call Our Helpline
What is Advocacy
Advocacy Issues
Advocacy Accomplishments
Advocacy Resources
Our Impact
Our Progress
Our Mission
Our Programs
News & Media Center
Our Community
Voices of FORCE
Tribute Wall
Donor Wall
Our Alliances
Retail Partners
About Us
FORCE Staff
Board of Directors & Advisory Board
Our Financials
Contact Us
XRAYS - Making Sense of Cancer Headlines
FORCE’s eXamining the Relevance of Articles for Young Survivors (XRAYS) program is a reliable resource for breast cancer research-related news and information. XRAYS reviews new breast cancer research, provides plain-language summaries, and rates how the media covered the topic. XRAYS is funded by the CDC.
Learn more about the XRAYS program
Interview with Angelina Jolie's doctor promotes meatless diet and scientific inaccuracies
This research is relevant for:
Breast cancer survivors
Women under 45
Women over 45
Men with breast cancer
Metastatic breast cancer
Triple negative breast cancer
Previvors
BRCA mutation carriers
ER/PR +
Her2+ breast cancer
Be a part of XRAYS
Visit Our XRAYS Blog
Read the most recent XRAYS Quarterly Digest
Suggest an article
Join the FORCE mailing list
Search by category, keyword or date
Learn more about XRAYS
Our overall rating approach
How this was rated
Read the article
Dr. Kristi Funk, Angelina Jolie's Hollywood breast surgeon, is promoting her new book about breast cancer. This article from the UK newspaper The Times includes an interview with Funk about her book, which proposes that diet is responsible for breast cancer. This XRAYS addresses scientific inaccuracies in this article. (8/7/18)
7 likes
ARTICLE AT A GLANCE
This article is about:
Dr. Kristi Funk, a surgeon and Angelina Jolie's doctor, who is promoting her new breast cancer book, Breasts: the Owner's Manual: Every Woman's Guide to Reducing Cancer Risk, Making Treatment Choices, and Optimizing Outcomes. We do not review the book here, but we do review an article from The Times in which she is interviewed and claims that a diet that includes meat is responsible for breast cancer. This XRAYS addresses four scientific inaccuracies in this article:
Not true: That we can control most of the risk factors for breast cancer.
Not true: That breast cancer is a result of lifestyle choices.
Not true: That ethnic background affects breast cancer risk through diet.
Not true: That lack of scientific evidence to support an idea means that the idea is wrong.
Each of these inaccuracies are discussed in detail below.
Dr. Funk is selling a book. Sensationalism and hype may help book sales and increase newspaper readership but they come at the expense of accurate scientific information.
What does this mean for me?
There are medical benefits to maintaining a healthy diet particularly for heart health. Experts on diet known as nutritionists can help people improve their diet. However, it is important to remember that changing diet does not protect against breast cancer. Some lifestyle changes will have more impact on breast cancer risk than others. Weight loss, increased physical activity, and reduction of alcohol consumption provide the greatest benefit for most populations. Consult your healthcare professional about what is appropriate for you.
Questions to ask your healthcare provider
What lifestyle changes would be most beneficial for me to reduce my breast cancer risk?
Given my family history and ethnic background, what preventive measures or genetic testing is appropriate for me?
Share your thoughts on this XRAYS article by taking our brief survey.
IN DEPTH REVIEW OF ARTICLE
Breast cancer, like all cancers, is a genetic disease
"Funk says that up to 90 percent of the risk factors for the disease lie in our control, “Not your doctor’s, genes or fate.”
This is incorrect for several reasons.
It is true that most breast cancers are “sporadic,” meaning that they are not due to a gene mutation you inherited from your mother or father. Inherited mutations, such as those in BRCA1 and BRCA2, are associated with about 10% of breast cancer cases. However, if you do not have an inherited mutation that does not mean that you are in control whether or not you will develop breast cancer.
Mutations are a natural part of our genes’ life cycles. DNA in cells randomly mutates throughout our lives. Some of these mutations disrupt normal cell function. Cancer develops when these random mutations prevent genes from controlling cell growth. That is why even if you have not inherited a mutation and make the best possible lifestyle choices, you still are at risk of getting cancer; no one’s risk is ever zero.
Age has the largest effect on sporadic breast cancer risk. The older we are, the more random mutations pile up in our genes. As much as we might like to control aging, we cannot. This is why all women have breast cancer risk regardless of lifestyle choices. These choices can only increase or decrease individual risk. Of the lifestyle choices, maintaining a healthy weight, increasing physical activity and avoiding alcoholic beverages lower breast cancer risk the most.
Helen Rumbelow, author of the article, "Meet Kristi Funk, Angelina Jolie's cancer doctor,” quotes Dr. Funk:
"When polled, most [women] say that breast cancer is down to genetics, when in fact 87 percent of women diagnosed do not have an immediate relative with the disease.”
Women diagnosed with breast cancer who do not have an immediate relative can still have an inherited mutation. Nearly 50% of women who test positive for BRCA genes do not have an immediate relative with disease. This may be due to chance (her relatives got lucky and did not develop cancer). It may also be due to inheriting a mutation from your father (men with a BRCA mutation have a lower cancer risk than women), small family size, or early death of female relatives for unrelated reasons as shown by Walsh and colleagues and reviewed by XRAYS.
Breast cancer is neither a result of personal choice or fate
In her article, Rumbelow states:
"Breast cancer: act of fate! It never once occurred to me that it was the other way around. That I was responsible. That I was poisoning my boobs daily, or at almost every meal."
This statement is misleading.
It implies that breast cancer is actually dependent on dietary choices. This is not true. Indeed, the whole article reads as if scientists and doctors have been “hiding” the truth about breast cancer being in patient’s control.
Although some people—especially those with a family history of breast cancer—may feel like they are destined to develop the disease, no one, not even individuals with inherited mutations, is “fated” to develop breast cancer.
If a person carries a mutation in a hereditary breast cancer gene, as Ms. Jolie does, they are not guaranteed to develop breast cancer, but their risk is certainly higher than someone without that same mutation. Researcher Mary-Claire King and colleagues observed that the lifetime risk of breast cancer among women who inherit a BRCA mutation is 82%, whereas the lifetime risk for women in the general population (without a BRCA mutation) is about 12% based on recent data (from National Cancer Institutues 2013-2015 SEER data.
Risk, however, does not equal fate. Although the likelihood of developing breast cancer is much higher for mutation carriers than for women in the general population, some women with BRCA mutations will live into their 90s without the disease; 18% of women with BRCA mutations will never develop breast cancer. It’s also important to remember that women with BRCA mutations have a high risk of ovarian cancer.
Everyone’s breast cancer risk is different. Some things, such as inheriting a mutation or age of menstruation, cannot be controlled. Other things, such as exposure to agents that increase mutations (e.g., chest X-rays, the miscarriage drug DES), excessive body weight or lack of physical activity are controllable. For high-risk women with a BRCA or other mutation, risk-reducing bilateral mastectomy reduces breast cancer risk by 90 %.
It’s important for women to discuss their personal breast cancer risk and options for managing their risk with their health care provider.
Lifestyle factors that affect breast cancer risk
This article suggests that the largest lifestyle risk for breast cancer is:
“Definitely nutrition. Then obesity, alcohol, exercise, hormone replacement therapy, stress.”
Also incorrect.
Among things that a person can change or control in their lifestyle, those with the largest impact on breast cancer are:
Obesity after menopause in women who do not use hormone replacement therapy (almost 3 times the risk)
Alcohol intake (increased risk with amount consumed on average)
Physical activity (decreased risk with moderate activity)
A life history of obesity impacts both women with and without BRCA mutations. This impact is small compared to how much inherited mutations increase lifetime risk of breast cancer.
The majority of evidence indicates that diet does not affect breast cancer risk. While some studies have had varied and inconclusive results, a meta-analysis (Hunter et al.) of 7 large studies found no association between dietary fat intake and breast cancer risk. The Women's Health Initiative conducted a randomized, controlled study of diet modification among postmenopausal women, comparing those who reduced fat intake by 20% and increased vegetable, fruit and grain intake to those who did not. Researchers found no statistical difference in invasive breast cancer rates between groups.
What about meat in diet? The article quotes Dr. Funk:
"The studies on vegans and breast cancer risk are, she concedes, somewhat muddy. The numbers of vegans have just been too low in the West, although it is worth noting that populations with low breast cancer rates typically eat little meat or dairy. The largest study on vegans and breast cancer is the Adventist Health Study, in which vegans (as opposed to vegetarians) showed a 44 percent drop in breast cancer rates compared with meat eaters, or, as the researchers wrote in the journal Cancer Epidemiology, “vegan diet seems to confer lower risk for . . . female-specific cancer than other dietary patterns”.
Kane-Diallo and colleagues conducted a large prospective trial of over 42,000 people in France, comparing how a pro-plant diet versus an animal product-based diet impacts cancer rates. They found that a pro-plant diet resulted in fewer digestive and lung cancers but saw no correlation with breast or prostate cancers. Similarly, Anderson and colleagues conducted a prospective trial looking at breast cancer and eating processed or red meat. They found no change in risk with red meat and a modest risk increase with processed meats.
What does modest mean? For processed meat, they observed a 1.21 relative risk, and combined with several other studies, a 1.09 risk in postmenopausal women (a risk of 1 is no change and 2 is twice the risk). Risk in the general population of women for breast cancer was projected to modestly increase from 12.5% to 13.5%.
In summary, no evidence has shown that meat or animal products alone lead to breast cancer. In contrast, it is clear that there are benefits to a meatless diet on cardiovascular health and risk of stomach and colorectal cancers.
There is also some evidence that dairy consumption is beneficial. A meta-study reviewing results from 22 studies with over 1.5 million participants saw a slight reduction in breast cancer risk among women who consumed modest to high amounts of dairy- in particular yogurt.
Studies that look at dietary differences are often confounded by the impact of overall weight. Some women who eat meat are heavy and others are not, just as vegan or vegetarian women can be heavy or not. Obesity impacts overall health and breast cancer risk, regardless of diet. Dr. Funk’s claim that women can avoid breast cancer by controlling their diets is false. Some dietary changes might help to modestly reduce risk if they also reduce obesity, but none will have as great an impact as the presence of an inherited mutation—something that no one gets to choose.
Because genes are inherited from ancestors, ethnic background affects cancer risk
This article states:
"Her book is full of facts I didn’t know. If you are tall you should be aware that you are more likely to get breast cancer. This means that the nations with the tallest women, such as Denmark and the Netherlands, overlap pretty heavily with the nations with the highest breast cancer rates (and the reverse goes for countries where the women are short, such as Japan). Why? Theories abound, but for Funk the clue is in the growth factors in dairy and meat, which are loved by the tallest nations."
Untrue.
A correlation of a trait with breast cancer does not prove that the trait causes breast cancer. People of specific ethnic groups have many genetic differences that are common within that group (genes for height, genes for hair color, genes that increase cancer risk); to equate one with the other is incorrect. Studies that have looked carefully at height and breast cancer risk have shown either 1) there is no correlation, or 2) the study was conducted within only one ethnic population (which share many genes and lifestyle traits not just diet).
Dr. Funk indicates that growth hormone leads to both height and breast cancer. There has been not been a link shown between breast cancer and growth hormones. If anything, high dairy consumption is marginally associated with decreased breast cancer risk.
However, there is a link with breast cancer and inherited mutations in genes that increase risk for breast cancer. For example, Denmark has the second highest rate of breast cancer in the world. and 8 founder mutations in BRCA genes. This suggests that people of a particular ethnicity who have high frequency of breast cancer, may have high rates of breast cancer because of the breast cancer mutations in the population not because they are taller or have different diets.
When there is no scientific evidence, despite testing, to support an idea, the simplest conclusion is that the idea is wrong
This article states:
"Research UK website advises women that research on the link between diet and cancer is “inconclusive and inconsistent.” The medical establishment believes it is too soon to advise women on meat or dairy."
Ms. Rumbelow quotes Dr. Funk:
"If the medical establishment feels the case on diet and lifestyle is still too unproven to advise women, who is left? Us?"
Scientific data does not support this premise.
It is not too soon to conclude this; this idea is incorrect. Funk's idea that eating meat or dairy causes breast cancer is false.
Dr. Funk implies that the medical establishment is being wishy-washy. Not so. This is a scientist's way of saying that diet does not cause breast cancer. Some diets seem to be very slightly associated with breast cancer in one study and then not associated in another study. These inconsistent results are expected statistically if something does NOT cause an effect and is simply occurring randomly.
The National Cancer Institute lists diet as a factor for which there is "adequate evidence of little or no association" with breast cancer. More studies will not suddenly prove that something that is untrue is now true.
Share your thoughts on this XRAYS article by taking our brief survey.
Posted 8/7/18
References
Helen Rumbelow. “Meet Kristi Funk, Angelina Jolie’s cancer doctor.” The Times. July 12, 2018.
Hunter DJ, Spiegelman D, Adami HO, et al. "Cohort studies of fat intake and the risk of breast cancer—a pooled analysis." New England Journal of Medicine. 1996; 334(6):356-61.
Kane-Diallo A, Srour B, Sellem L, et al. "Association between a pro plant-based dietary score and cancer risk in the prospective NutriNet-Santé cohort." International Journal of Cancer. May 11, 2018. doi: 10.1002/ijc.31593.
King MC, Marks JH, Mandell JB, et al. "Breast and ovarian cancer risks due to inherited mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2." Science. 2003; 302(5645):643-6.
National Cancer Institute: Breast Cancer Prevention
Prentice RL, Caan B, Chlebowski RT, et al. "Low-fat dietary pattern and risk of invasive breast cancer: the Women's Health Initiative Randomized Controlled Dietary Modification Trial." JAMA. 2006;295 (6):629-42.
Walsh T, Mandell JB, Norquist BM, et al. "Genetic Predisposition to Breast Cancer Due to Mutations Other Than BRCA1 and BRCA2 Founder Alleles Among Ashkenazi Jewish Women.” JAMA Oncology. 2017; 3(12):1647-53.
Zang J, Shen M, Du S et al., "The Association between Dairy Intake and Breast Cancer in Western and Asian Populations: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis." 2015. Journal of Breast Cancer. 18(4): 313-322.
Related Information and Resources
FORCE XRAYS: Nutrition and Exercise category
FORCE XRAYS: Breast cancer risk category
FORCE XRAYS: Prevention category
FORCE XRAYS: Racial and ethnic differences category
Back to XRAYS Home
Find older XRAYS studies and articles
By category:
Alternative Treatments
Basic Science
Breast Cancer Risk
Cancer Treatment
Clinical Trials
Emotional Health
Environmental Exposure
Family & Caregivers
Financial Issues
Genetic Testing
Health Disparities
Intimacy & Body Image
Metastatic Breast Cancer
Nutrition & Exercise
Pregnancy & Fertility
Prevention
Racial and Ethnic Differences
Risk for Other Cancers
Risk Management
Risk for Recurrence
Screening
Surgery
Survivorship
VIEW ALL XRAYS
By keyword search:
By date range:
Summer 2015 Fall 2015 Winter 2016 Spring 2016 Summer 2016 Fall 2016 Winter 2017 Spring 2017 Summer 2017 Fall 2017 Winter 2018 Spring 2018 Summer 2018 Fall 2018 Winter 2019 Spring 2019
XRAYS Home
FORCE:Facing Our Risk of Cancer Empowered
Privacy Policy
Site Map
Contact Us
Follow Us:
Receive the latest updates from FORCE
Disclaimer: Health links are made available for educational purposes only. This information should not be interpreted as medical advice. All health information should be discussed with your health care provider. Please read our full disclaimer for more information.
©2018 FORCE-Facing Our Risk of Cancer Empowered, Inc. All rights reserved.
FORCE®, FORCE FACING OUR RISK OF CANCER EMPOWERED®, and the FORCE Ribbon Design are registered trademarks of FORCE-Facing Our Risk of Cancer Empowered, Inc. in the United States. Unauthorized reproduction or use of FORCE's trademarks is prohibited.
info@facingourrisk.org
Website by Rareheron Web Design
I am here because
I need to learn more about genetic testing for hereditary cancer
I have a mutation and cancer. What do I do?
I have a mutation but do not have cancer. What do I do?
I want to participate in research
I need support
I want to help
connect Xrays Survey