Dr. Gabe Mirkin on Health, Fitness and Nutrition. | Processed Meats, Red Meat and Cancer
Home
Fitness
Nutrition
Health
Women's Health
Men's Health
Diabetes
Heart Health
Joints, Bones & Muscles
Other Diseases & Conditions
Diana's Healthful Recipes
Deaths of Famous People
Weekly-eZine
Home
Fitness
Nutrition
Health
◉ Women's Health
◉ Men's Health
◉ Diabetes
◉ Heart Health
◉ Joints, Bones & Muscles
◉ Other Diseases & Conditions
◉ Diana's Healthful Recipes
◉ Deaths of Famous People
Weekly-eZine
Subscribe to Dr. Mirkin's free FITNESS & HEALTH NEWSLETTER
Processed Meats, Red Meat and Cancer
The World Health Organization’s International Agency for Research on Cancer has issued a report that eating processed meats (bacon, sausage, bologna, hot dogs and so forth) raises risk for colon cancer, and that red meat (beef, pork, lamb and other meats from mammals) may cause cancers of the colon, prostate or pancreas (The Lancet Oncology, October 26, 2015).
The WHO report was written by 22 public health experts from 10 countries who reviewed 800 studies on cancer in humans. They found that the more meat a person eats, the more likely he is to develop cancer. Each 50 grams of processed meat (two slices of ham or a sausage) per day is associated with an 18 percent increased risk of colon cancer. Every 100 grams of red meat eaten daily increases colon cancer risk by 17 percent. They also concluded that prolonged cooking at high temperatures or in direct contact with the heat source increases production of Advanced Glycation Endproducts (AGEs), which are potent carcinogens. These experts conceded that:
• processed meats are not as risky as smoking tobacco or being exposed to asbestos
• the association of red meat with colon cancer is not as strong as its association with processed meats.
According to the Earth Policy Institute, the average North American ate 80 pounds of meat (per year) in 1940 and in 2012, he ate 180 pounds.
My Recommendations
Those of you who have read my newsletters and listened to my radio show know that for the past thirty years I have recommended avoiding or severely limiting red meat and processed meats. See my reports on:
Diet Changes Reduce Colon Cancer Risk in Just Two Weeks
How Red Meat May Increase Risk for Cancer
How Red Meat May Cause Cancer
Red Meat Associated with Many Different Diseases
How Red Meat May Increase Heart Attack Risk
and many others in the Nutrition Section of DrMirkin.com
November 1st, 2015
| Share this Report!
Email this Report
Email
Recent
High-Intensity Interval Training Can Increase Injuries
April 21st, 2019
Fitness for Cancer Patients and Survivors
April 21st, 2019
Peter Sellers' Many Heart Attacks
April 21st, 2019
Earl Thomas Conley and Cerebral Atrophy
April 21st, 2019
Rheumatoid Arthritis and Colon Bacteria
April 14th, 2019
Fiber, a True Superfood
April 14th, 2019
The Good Food Book
FREE - You can read The Good Food Book on your computer. It will help you to lose weight, lower cholesterol or high blood pressure, control diabetes, or just eat more healthfully.
Read more
Find us on Facebook
About the Author: Gabe Mirkin, MD
Sports medicine doctor, fitness guru and long-time radio host Gabe Mirkin, M.D., brings you news and tips for your healthful lifestyle. A practicing physician for more than 50 years and a radio talk show host for 25 years, Dr. Mirkin is a graduate of Harvard University and Baylor University College of Medicine. He is board-certified in four specialties: Sports Medicine, Allergy and Immunology, Pediatrics and Pediatric Immunology. The Dr. Mirkin Show, his call-in show on fitness and health, was syndicated in more than 120 cities. Read More
Home
Fitness
Nutrition
Women’s Health
Men’s Health
Diabetes
Heart Health
Joints & Bones
More Health Reports
Recipes
Online Radio Show
eZine
Histories & Mysteries
DrMirkin Recommends
About Dr. Mirkin
The Good Food Book
Archive
Site Map
Copyright 2016 Drmirkin | All Rights Reserved | Powered by Xindesigns