Can AIDS Be Transmitted Through Touching Tears - The Body
Skip to main content
Skip page links.
TOPICS IN HIV/AIDS
Ask The Experts
Search
Search
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Newsletters
Search
Search
THEBODY.COM
What's New Newsletters Android/iPhone App My Health Tracker Personal Reminder Service HIV Care Professionals The Body en Espanol ASOFinder.com
Ask The Experts
TOPICS IN HIV/AIDS
Treatment
HIV Medications
Hepatitis C Coinfection
GI Issues
Other Side Effects & Coinfections
Drug Resistance
Switching & Stopping Treatment
Pediatric HIV Treatment
Prevention
HIV/AIDS Basics
HIV Prevention
HIV Testing
Safer Sex
Other Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Myths About HIV/AIDS
History of the AIDS Epidemic
Immune System Basics
Helping Friends With HIV/AIDS
Living With HIV
Getting Good Care
Healthy Living With HIV
Arts, Media & HIV/AIDS
Diet, Nutrition & HIV/AIDS
HIV Stigma
Relationships, Sexuality & HIV/AIDS
Vitamins, Minerals & Supplements
HIV and Financial Issues
HIV and Legal Issues
Personal Stories
HIV Blog Central
Stories About Men
Stories About Women
Stories About Transgender People
Stories About Young People
Stories About Older People
Stories About Families and Loved Ones
RESOURCE CENTERS
African Americans
Aging
Gay Men
Latinos
Women
Newly Diagnosed
Starting Treatment
Keeping Up With Your HIV Meds
Can AIDS Be Transmitted Through Touching Tears
Here's a taste of what TheBody.com has to offer on this topic:
Get the Facts
Condoms
...apart. Use unlubricated condoms for oral sex (most lubricants taste awful). Do not throw condoms into a toilet. They can clog plumbing. Using a Male Condom: Put the condom on when your penis is erect -- but before it touches your partner's mouth, vagina, or rectum. Many couples use a condom too late, after some initial penetration. Direct genital contact can transmit some diseases. The liquid that comes out of the penis before...
Read more »
Ask the Experts
Mom offers $50!! (CARING FOR AN HIV/AIDS PATIENT AT HOME)
First I'd like to say your website is Godsend!Second, my daughter bought a few outfits at the mall, she pulled one of the pants out and noticed there was some redish stain. If it was blood from an HIV infected person, would this pose a risk? She...
Response from Robert J. Frascino, M.D.
The Robert James Frascino AIDS Foundation
...without AIDS are infected with a virus called cytomegalovirus (CMV), which can be spread in urine or saliva. Wash your hands after touching urine or saliva from a person with AIDS. This is especially important for someone who may be pregnant... Read more »
Coffee with AIDS and Milk (HIV IN NASAL MUCOUS)
Can I get AIDS this way? I was at Starbucks and ordered a cup of coffee. After I drank it, I remembered seeing the cashier who poured it wipe her nose with her hand. She may have just been itching it, but if she wasn't and she had mucous on her hand...
Response from Robert J. Frascino, M.D.
The Robert James Frascino AIDS Foundation
...you something: if an hiv+ person picks their nose ( which has a little bit f blood in it) and wipes it on something, and you touch it like 5 seconds later, and right after you touch it you wipe the inside of your eye (since the eye has muocous... Read more »
Paper Cut (TEARS)
I was recently working with a child who is HIV positive. The child had to receive vaccinations and was crying. As i consoled her, i wiped tears from her face, forgetting that I had a rather deep paper cut on my finger from the day before. Can HIV be...
Response from Robert J. Frascino, M.D.
The Robert James Frascino AIDS Foundation
...Hello,Can tears transmit HIV? Ahhhh . . . another QTND (Question That Never Dies). No, HIV cannot be transmitted by tears, saliva, sputum, sweat, Read more »
i would have been so happy to see your wedding if i was invited. i like the great work what you do here.
Words cannot explain how much you mean to the society. I would have loved to see your wedding. Not to mention, i would have bought a good present, for a nice person like you. I left my exgirl friend, because she was cheating on me. She was cheating...
Response from Robert J. Frascino, M.D.
The Robert James Frascino AIDS Foundation
...condom or while cuddling his face....I had condom protected oral sex, short one, but is it possible to get infected if his saliva touched my wound on the finger(the skin was missing from this part of finger , but the wound was made one day... Read more »
Go to Ask the Experts »
Articles
Stopping the Spread of HIV
...HIV if you practice abstinence (not having sex). You also won't get infected if your penis, mouth, vagina or rectum doesn't touch anyone else's penis, mouth, vagina, or rectum. Safe activities include kissing, erotic massage, masturbation or hand... Read more »
Safer Sex Guidelines
...activity. Unsafe Activities Unsafe sex has a high risk of spreading HIV. The greatest risk is when blood or sexual fluid touches the soft, moist areas (mucous membrane) inside the rectum, vagina, mouth, nose, or at the tip of the penis. These... Read more »
What Are the Symptoms of HIV and AIDS?
...other type of activity -- kissing someone with HIV, sharing food or drinks with them, touching something an HIV-positive person touched -- there's basically no chance that whatever you did resulted in you getting HIV. If you're curious about... Read more »
How HIV Is Spread
...membranes of the anus and vagina are very efficient routes into the bloodstream. HIV may also enter either through routine, minute tearing caused during intercourse (which is often unnoticed). Anal sex is riskier than vaginal sex, because the... Read more »
Resource Centers
African Americans
Aging
Gay Men
Keeping Up With Your Meds
Latinos
Newly Diagnosed
Starting Treatment
Women
Guides for People With HIV
View All of Our Guides >>
© 2015 Remedy Health Media, LLC All Rights Reserved
Facebook
Twitter
Newsletters
The Body
About The Body
Contact The Body
Site Policies
Content Providers
Advertise With Us
Site Map
Remedy Health Media
About Remedy Health Media
Contact Remedy Health Media
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
The Body is a service of Remedy Health Media, LLC, 750 3rd Avenue, 6th Floor, New York, NY 10017. The Body and its logos are trademarks of Remedy Health Media, LLC, and its subsidiaries, which owns the copyright of The Body's homepage, topic pages, page designs and HTML code. General Disclaimer: The Body is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice or professional services. The information provided through The Body should not be used for diagnosing or treating a health problem or a disease. It is not a substitute for professional care. If you have or suspect you may have a health problem, consult your health care provider.