Seborrheic Keratosis And Hydroquinone
0 items in cart
Basket
Checkout
≡ Menu
Home
Product
FAQ’s
Contact
Seborrheic Keratosis And Hydroquinone
adminsos 27th August 2011
Seborrheic Keratosis And Hydroquinone
Hydroquinone is a white granular solid. It has two hydroxyl groups bonded to a benzene ring in a Para position. It is also known as also benzene-1, 4-diol or quinol and is an aromatic organic compound of the type phenol. It is produced industrially by three routes, two of which are dominant:
•	The dialkylation of benzene with propene and this gives 1, 4-diisopropylbenzene. The compound reacts with air to afford the bi (hydro peroxide), which is structurally similar to cumin hydro peroxide and rearranges to give acetone and hydroquininone in acid.
•	Practiced only in China, involves the oxidation of aniline by manganese dioxide followed by reduction of the resulting 1, 4-benzoquinone. The process is conducted batch wise and generates a substantial waste stream.
•	Another method involves hydroxylation of phenol. The conversion uses hydrogen peroxide and affords a mixture of hydroquinone and catechol.
Hydroquinone in the field of is used as a topical application for skin whitening or reduces the color of the skin because it does not have the same predisposition to cause dermatitis as it is the case with metol. In the recent years, hydroquinone has been considered to be the most effective skin bleaching cream and has been used to treat acne scars, freckles, melasma, fade liver spots and other forms of skin discoloration as caused by scabies infection. Its use for skin whitening is however banned in some countries including the member states of the European Union.
It is important to note that you have to follow all instructions when using this drug or any skin bleaching agent and it is also advisable that you contact a dermatologist for advice. The drug should not be used on broken skin but the good news is that it can help clear your spots. You can use it to clear scars after a sebhorreic keratosis but beware of the consequences.
The question that is in many people’s minds is whether hydroquinone is safe, some studies have shown that hydroquinone can cause exogenous ochronosis, which is a disfiguring disease where blue black pigments are deposited on the skin. The United States food and drug administration has banned over the counter sale of this drug claiming that it is a potential carcinogen. This is after several studies on adult rats revealed that that the rats increased the rates of tumors monocellilar leukemia, anisokaryosis, hepatocellular adenomas, thyroid follicular cell hyperplasias and renal cell tubule cell adenomas. Although it may work properly as a lightening agent with proper use Hydroquinone is also said to cause skin sensitivity on the people who have used it, to prevent further damage one can use a daily sunscreen that has a high persistent pigment darkening rating.
Recent Seborrheic Keratosis Articles:
Enzyme Treatment For Seborrheic Keratosis
Ethnic Skin Treatment For Seborrheic Keratosis
Seborrheic Keratosis In The USA
Ethnic Skin Treatment For Seborrheic Keratosis
Basket
Products
Seborrheic Keratosis Removal Kit
Rated 5.00 out of 5
$39.99
Recent Posts
Seborrheic Keratosis Removal With Hydrogen Peroxide
Seborrheic keratosis can affect just about any part of the body but, through studies and a lot of research...
Seborrheic Keratosis Herbal Treatment
Seborrheic Keratosis is one the most common skin diseases today. It’s affecting many people both kids and even the...
Seborrheic Keratosis Self Treatment
Seborrheic keratosis can come up in the form of bumps on the skin. There are times that the bumps...
Home Treatment For Seborrheic Keratosis
Seborrheic keratosis can come up on nay part of the skin. It is a very common skin condition. In...
Aloe Vera For Seborrheic Keratosis
Seborrheic keratosis is a very common skin condition. It had been around for long now and there is rarely...
Home Remedy For Removing Seborrheic Keratosis
Seborrheic keratosis can come up on any part of the body. It can occur also at any age. Those...
Herbal Treatment For Seborrheic Keratosis
Seborrheic keratosis is one of the most common skin conditions around today. Many kids and older ones are having...
Coconut Oil For Seborrheic Keratosis
Seborrheic keratosis is one of the most common skin conditions on earth today. You may find it difficult to...
Seborrheic Keratosis 2012
Seborrheic keratosis is not so uncommon around today. Many individuals are having it. The fact that the skin condition...
Natural Removal Of Senile Warts
Several methods had been developed for the effective removal of senile warts. It might have already appeared on you...
Copyright © 2019 Seborrheic Keratosis
Privacy Policy | Security Statement | Terms & Conditions