Winter vegetables and why you should eat these in winter – key2connect.in
Skip to content
key2connect.in
Free Chat with specialist
Menu
Home
Contact
January 17, 2019 key2connectLeave a Comment on Winter vegetables and why you should eat these in winter
Winter vegetables and why you should eat these in winter
Winters bring joy and colour to our plate. The winter vegetables are as invigorating to taste buds as they are eye-candies. In summer, we mostly eat vegetables like brinjal, pumpkin and parwal. However, winter unleashes a gamut of them. In addition to crucifier vegetables like cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli and Brussels sprouts, we also relish vegetables like broad beans, carrots, radishes, peas, French beans and capsicums. Not only they bring variety to your culinary experience, they are extremely helpful for your health. This article shall help you figure out which winter vegetables you should eat and why.
Ask a Doctor Free
Cabbage: Cabbage is one of the crucifier vegetables that we associate with winter season. The aroma of a well prepared cabbage curry is inextricably related to the Indian dining experience. They are pretty healthy as well. Cabbages have vitamin C, vitamin K, potassium and other important minerals. I should emphasize that vitamin K in vegetables aren’t abundantly available, and hence cabbages are recommended as a source of vitamin K. Vitamin K helps in blood clotting. Lots of people complain about the indigestion caused by cabbage; however the notion must be corrected. Cabbages contain both soluble and insoluble fibre that is good for gut bacteria and digestive health. Nevertheless, for persistent digestive issues chat with professional doctors
Carrot: Carrots are famous throughout the world. A succulent continental meal without boiled carrots is thoroughly incomplete. Carrots contain vitamin A, vitamin C, potassium and other nutrients that are good for health. However, carrots are primarily known as a source of vitamin A. Vitamin A is essential for eyes and skin and hence eating carrots would take care of your eyes and skins and even your hair and will help you in the long run.
Broad beans: Broad beans are winter based vegetables that contain iron, zinc and folate. Folate is important for the brain development of your child. Zinc also fosters growth and development. In addition, the iron content helps to improve your blood health. Evidently, broad beans are healthy nutritional source for pregnant mothers. Pregnancy also needs extra special care. For special needs you should opt for free online chat with docto
Radish: Several people are prejudiced with this particular vegetable, however, they are excellent source of Vitamin E, A and C. These vitamins are antioxidants and therefore help enhancing your immunity. Radishes help you fight diabetes and are good for your heart.
Peas: Peas are excellent source of protein and are primarily available in winter. Peas contain antioxidant know as flavonoids and catechin, which help reduce free radical damage. Reduction of free radical damage in the long run helps prevent many diseases. They also contain vitamin K which is good for Alzheimer and arthritis. So include peas in your daily meal. A good sabji made of peas can be extraordinarily satisfying to your taste buds also. There is no denying of the fact that Alzheimer is a serious disease. For any symptoms you should share your problem with doctors
Capsicum: Any fans of Chinese cuisine out there would know when I say- every food becomes yummier when capsicum is added to it. Not just in terms of taste; health-wise capsicum is beneficial as well. Capsicum contains flavonoids, an antioxidant that is especially helpful for menopausal women. It also contains folate and vitamin E that helps recuperate women’s health. So make some sautéed capsicum and eat in winter.
Broccoli: Broccoli is considered a super food, especially because it contains high amount of antioxidant. Additionally, Vitamin k and vitamin c found in broccoli are helpful for our health. This vegetable is primarily available in the winter season and is helpful for reducing free radical damage.
French beans: This winter vegetable is used for making soups, fried rice and plain curry. Many of us are not aware of the health benefits of these vegetables. These vegetables contain lots of potassium, folic acid, iron and zinc. This is good for patients suffering from diabetics. For diabetes related problems talk with doctors online.
Coriander leaves: These leaves are mandatorily a part of curry and soup preparation in this part of the globe during winters. Sometime these can be used for making chutney. These all-purpose leafy vegetable has some excellent health benefits too. It is good for skin health and helps reduce inflammation of skin. It helps in preventing conjunctivitis which is very common in winter season. It is also good for reducing blood cholesterol and for patients suffering from diabetes.
Cauliflower: Cauliflower is cooked in hundred different ways and it won’t be an exaggeration to say that each of them is tastier than the other. Cauliflower has several health benefits too. Sometime people are also afraid in consuming cauliflower because they think it may cause gas and indigestion. But any vegetable that contain high volume of fibre may cause indigestion. Cauliflower contains Vitamin K, Potassium and magnesium. All these nutrients are good for overall health so don’t be afraid and eat cauliflowers after proper cooking.
Boost your health this winter with these wonder veggies, all the while drowning in their exquisite taste.
Source URL: – http://www.key2connect.in/blogs/details/winter-vegetables-and-why-you-should-eat-these-in-winter
Advertisements
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Published by key2connect
Key2connect is a Health/Fitness based chat startup where people can ask the query from professional. Our focus is to aware people about fitness and health.	View all posts by key2connect
Categories DoctorTags ask a question to doctor, best doctor in delhi, best doctor in noida, best doctor near me, online doctor consultation free
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Post navigation
Previous Go Unique On Your Wedding
Next Daily Horoscope Today- 21-01-2019
Instagram
#yoga_expert_in_delhi #Yoga_trainer #online_chat_yoga_experts #yoga_tips #fitness_tips #Daily_yoga_tips
May God paint the canvas of your life with the most beautiful Colors. May he Sprinkle Peace, luck, Success and Joy at Every Step #Happy_Holi!
Best Weight Loss Exercise.....https://www.key2connect.in/specialists/fitness #weight_loss #weight_loss_exercise #fitness #healtjh #best_exercise_to_loss_weight_at_home #fitness_trainer #daily_fitness_tips
"Online Fitness Consultation Delhi" #fitness #fitness_trainer #health_and_fitness #fitness_trainer_delhi
#makeupartist #eye_makeup_tips #smokey_eye_makeup_onlineSmokey Eye Makeup Online...http://www.key2connect.in/specialists/makeup-artist
Ask an Orthopedic Online.....http://bit.ly/2SFsm25
Facebook
Facebook
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
Hours & Info
Hasanpur New Delhi 110092
+91 - 011-43586776
Lunch: 1pm - 2pm
Follow Us
Location hasanpur new delhi 110092 Phone +91 - 011-43586776 E-mail info@key2connect.in Hours M-S: 9 AM - 7PM
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Create your website at WordPress.com
Get started
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this:
search previous next tag category expand menu location phone mail time cart zoom edit close