Black Coffee Can Help You to Shed a Few Pounds | Weight Management
Diseases
Children Health
Men's Health
Women's Health
Cancer
Heart Health
Diabetes
Other Diseases
Miscellaneous
Diet & Fitness
Weight Management
Healthy Diet
Exercise Fitness
Yoga
Alternative Therapies
Mind and Body
Ayurveda
Home Remedies
Grooming
Fashion and Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Pregnancy & Parenting
New Born Care
Parenting Tips
Know Baby Name
Search Baby Name
Relationships
Marriage
Dating
Cheating
Health A to Z
Videos
Slideshows
Health News
Baby Names
Experts
QNA
Menu
Diseases
Diet & Fitness
Grooming
Pregnancy & Parenting
Relationships
Health A to Z
Videos
हिंदी
✖
Health
diet & fitness
Weight Management
Black Coffee Can Help You to Shed a Few Pounds
Weight Management By Arushi Bidhuri , Onlymyhealth editorial team / Oct 18, 2018
Quick Bites
Weight loss property of coffee is attributed to caffeine
Coffee affects the metabolic rate of the body
Coffee also provides minimal no. of calories to the body
Coffee is the first thing most of us drink in the morning without even knowing its health benefits. It acts as a mood freshener in the morning and even helps you lose those extra kilos. The sugary syrups and saturated-fat creams that coffee contains are the reason why coffee helps you lose weight. The amazing weight loss property of black coffee is attributed to the presence of caffeine.
Effect on Metabolic Rate
The caffeine content in coffee affects the metabolic rate of the body aiding in energy production with the burning of body fats. It stimulates thermogenesis, which increases calorie burning. Thermogenesis is a way of producing heat and energy by using calories to digest food. This causes weight loss.
Also read: 6 Best Foods to Eat in the Morning for Effective Weight Loss
Low-Calorie Drink
Coffee also provides minimal no. of calories to the body. Black coffee is basically a calorie-free beverage, so you can enjoy it anytime even while dieting. Also, coffee is rich in antioxidants that aid in weight loss.
Extra Energy to Work Out
Coffee makes you more alert and gives you extra energy to workout for long. Increase in workout burns more calories, thus reduces weight.
Curbs Hunger
Coffee also temporarily decreases your desire to eat by suppressing your appetite. It has caffeine which stimulates the release of CCK, an appetite suppressant hormone. CCK delays the onset of hunger and promotes a feeling of fullness.
Also read:10 Ways to Control Hunger Pangs When trying to Lose Weight
Diuretic Effect
Coffee also has a diuretic effect, which causes a short-term weight loss because it lowers the overall body weight. but not fat by decreasing the amount of fluid you are holding. This is beneficial for women who retain more water during menstruation.
Promotes Lipolysis and Decomposition Fat
Caffeine also promotes lipolysis, a process of conversion of fat into fatty acids. It promotes the decomposition of hidden fat. The fatty acids and the muscle will be absorbed into the body releasing energy, and aid in losing weight.
Better Bowel Movements
Black coffee helps to flush out your stool. Coffee is a coarse fiber food and acts as a mild cathartic agent which has a rapid effect. Only 4 minutes after drinking coffee, gastric peristalsis begins and this causes weight loss.
Black coffee is a great way to reduce weight but getting addicted to it has its own disadvantages. Too much black coffee can cause a headache, muscle aches, upset stomach, irritability, nervousness, and insomnia. So for a healthy life, enjoy black coffee in moderation and stay slim.
Read more articles on Weight Management.
For more related articles, download OnlymyHealth app.
Written by: Arushi Bidhuri
Source: Onlymyhealth editorial team Oct 18, 2018
All possible measures have been taken to ensure accuracy, reliability, timeliness and authenticity of the information; however Onlymyhealth.com does not take any liability for the same. Using any information provided by the website is solely at the viewers’ discretion. In case of any medical exigencies/ persistent health issues, we advise you to seek a qualified medical practitioner before putting to use any advice/tips given by our team or any third party in form of answers/comments on the above mentioned website.
Trending Topics
Weight Loss and Coffee
Caffeine for Weight Loss
Weight Loss Drinks
Coffee
Weight Loss Foods
Weight Loss
Related Article
How Black Seeds Help Diabetics
How three cups of coffee a day help your liver and other organs
Caffeinated Coffee Can Help Ward Off Heart Diseases
You Gain 4.5 Kg Annually with your Daily Coffee
13 Signs that prove you are a 'Chai' lover
"I love you": The illusion of love as created by insincere lovers
Trending Article
Now you can lose 10 pounds by following these simple tricks
7 Ways you didn't know you could use salt
How to Lose 5 Pounds Fast
You Gain 4.5 Kg Annually with your Daily Coffee
Why you should avoid too much tea or coffee in winters
Addicted to coffee? Here is how you could be unknowingly sabotaging your system
Loading...
Does drinking black coffee aid weight loss?
Daily Coffee might Help Memory
"I love you": The illusion of love as created by insincere lovers
5 Things in your house that are making you tired
Drinks you can drink all night and not gain weight
Awards and Recognition
Drivers of Digital 2018
Best Healthcare Website
Indian Content leadership Awards 2018
Best Content in a Healthcare/ Fitness Website
Global Digital Marketing Awards 2017
Best Digital Publication (Health/ Medical Industry)
Digipub Award 2017
Website of the Year (Lifestyle Infotainment) - Gold
Digixx 2019
Digital Marketing Excellence in Healthcare/Pharma – Gold Winner
Featured Health Topics
Dental Health
Hepatitis
Dengue
Allergy
Asthma
Hypertension
Subscribe Our Newsletter
Creativity happenes everywhere.
I have read the Privacy Policy and the Terms and Conditions. I provide my consent for my data to be processed for the purposes as described and receive communications for service related information.
Copyright © 2019 MMI ONLINE LTD
Home
About us
Management
Contact us
Privacy
Cookies Policy
Terms of Use
Sitemap
This website uses cookie or similar technologies, to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalised recommendations. By continuing to use our website, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy. OK