Savor the flavor Overcome Nausea Ginger | Health and Beauty Info
Health and Beauty Info
Contact Us
skip to main | skip to sidebar
Home
Home » Efficacious Plants , Herbal , Herbs » Savor the flavor Overcome Nausea Ginger
Savor the flavor Overcome Nausea Ginger
Do you ever use ginger to treat nausea and vomiting? Properties of plants of this one was no doubt in dealing with nausea, but it helps if we know a bit of research that confirms ginger as an anti-nausea medications.
Ginger is a rhizome plant that is very popular as a spice and medicinal materials. Rhizome-shaped fingers are swollen in the middle sections. In Asia including Indonesia, ginger is used to treat stomach aches, nausea, and diarrhea.
A study presented at the annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology, 2009 last year found that ginger may reduce nausea effects on breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. The research was funded by the National Cancer Institute, which involved 644 patients, most women with breast cancer, who were undergoing chemotherapy at 23 oncology practices in the United States.
In the study, all patients received standard anti-vomiting every day when undergoing chemotherapy. But some of them also took capsules containing extracts of ginger, three days before chemotherapy.
The results showed those who took ginger experienced approximately 45 percent reduction in the risk of vomiting than those who did not take ginger, says Julie L. Ryan of the University of Rochester, the study's lead researcher.
To know more benefits of ginger, National Institutes of Health has made a summary of the truth of the efficacy of ginger in addressing a variety of diseases:
* Motion sickness: Some studies report that ginger does not have much effect in overcoming motion sickness. Another study even noted that ginger may reduce vomiting only, not nausea. Further research is needed to determine the effects that might result from the consumption of ginger and other hangover medicine.
* Nausea and vomiting during pregnancy: Preliminary studies suggest that ginger may be safe and effective for nausea and vomiting during pregnancy when used as recommended dose for short periods of time.
Nausea from chemotherapy: Report of preliminary studies suggest that ginger may reduce the severity and duration of nausea in cancer patients after chemotherapy. Other studies also showed no adverse effects from the consumption of ginger. However, further research will be needed to confirm these results.
* Nausea and vomiting pascatindakan surgery: Some research reports indicate the consumption of ginger before surgery can actually trigger an increase in nausea or vomiting after surgery patients. However, other research shows just the different results that need further study.
* Migraine: There is not enough scientific evidence to explain the effects of ginger in dealing with migraine.
* Weight loss: For some people, ginger has been shown to be a tool to lose weight. However, further studies are needed to make a safe recommendation.
Active compound in ginger
As described in the book Efficacious Herbal Indonesia, ginger contains a variety of active compounds such as Gingerol, zingerone, 1-dehydrogingerodine, 6-gingesulfonic acid, shogaol, carbohydrates, palmetic acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, caprylic acid, caproc acid, lauric acid, myristic acid, pentadecanoic acid, stearic acid, linilenic acid, lecithin, gingerglycolipids (A, B, C). Ginger also contains amino acids, protein, resin, diterpene, minerals, vitamin A and niacin. There is a volatile oil content in it: zingiberene, B-bisabolene, singiberol, zingiborenol, ar-curcumene and some aldehydes.
Side effects
Few side effects that may arise when someone is eating ginger in small doses. The most common side effects reported were bloating, heartburn, and nausea. This effect is most often associated with the use of ginger powder.
Until now, there are still few studies that provide information about the safety of the effects of long-term use of ginger in a safe and guidelines of ginger supplements.
In theory, ginger may increase the risk of bleeding when the same time you are taking blood-thinning medications such as aspirin, anticoagulants such as warfarin (coumadin), anti-platelet drugs such as clopidogrel (Plavix), and anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil) or naproxen ( Naprosyn, Aleve).
Important is also known that ginger can also interfere with the work of drugs that alter cardiac contraction, including beta-blockers and digoxin.
Before you start using ginger to treat any disease, it is better if you consult with your doctor, especially if you are undergoing long-term treatment.
Source : http://www.myhealthnewsdaily.com/
Tweet
0 comments:
Post a Comment
« Prev Post Next Post » Home
Popular Posts
How to Choose Safe Whitening Face Cream and contain no mercury
What woman does not crave the smooth white skin like porcelain? Surely all women agree that a beautiful face is having flawless skin without...
BEAUTIFUL SKIN WITH MILK
You would know if milk good for your health and bone formation. But it turns out the milk is not only beneficial for your health but can als...
Sports Not Just For Health, But Can Also For Beauty !!
As a woman I often envy the beauty of other women, but the same time when I also want to know what's your secret so she can look and be ...
Impact of Health Risk Of Oral Sex
At present a lot of changing sexual behavior as well as oral sex is often done today. Oral sex itself has a bad impact and risks to health. ...
Always make Faces Fresh Appear
Drink plenty of water, sleep 10 hours a day and exercise is the best thing to do. But not everyone is capable of doing that, although it is ...
How to Make Yellow Teeth White Being
Tips on How to Whiten Teeth Naturally With Yellow Quic k - the teeth are part of us something that is hard to care for the health, especiall...
Diseases and Causes Asthma and how effective ways to prevent asthma
Asthma is a chronic inflammation of the airways that causes swelling and narrowing of the airways, resulting in difficulty breathing. Chroni...
Keeping Skin Beauty Tips Face & Body
In the last two months, the Earth is undergoing changes in temperature, causing changes in the weather becomes more erratic, the humidity in...
Underarm Whitening Tips
Black underarm is sometimes causing an uncomfortable feeling to know that underarm whitening tips are very in need by those who have problem...
Natural Remedy To Overcome Late Coming Months
Sometimes late in coming months can make a woman become anxious. Either because it is not planning a pregnancy, or health worries her womb. ...
Random Post
Blog Archive
► 2013 (128)
► April (32)
► March (12)
► February (40)
► January (44)
▼ 2012 (201)
► December (8)
► November (67)
► October (17)
► September (14)
► August (18)
► July (13)
► June (13)
► May (9)
► April (8)
▼ March (22)
Two Ways to Prevent Hypertension
Sleep less and Pros Can Damage the Heart
VITAMIN D
Salmon, Super Foods For Pregnant Women
Choosing The Right Foods Based on Blood Type
7 Super Foods for Women's Health
Cell Phone Radiation Dangers for Pregnant Women
Preventing Diabetes With Apples
20 Benefits of Aloe Vera
Savor the flavor Overcome Nausea Ginger
Identifying the Disease through the Eyes
10 Quick And Healthy Breakfasts To Go
7 Vitamins Sharpen Your Memory
8 Foods for Preventing Colorectal Cancer
Eating berries helps prevent age-related memory lo...
Sugar in the Morning breakfast is important to Imp...
Yoga effective in treating patients with stress-re...
Why We Need Vegetables
5 Benefits of Aloe Vera for Health
5 Reasons to Keep Drinking Coffee
Orange juice can Disrupt Performance Drugs, really...
Taurine in Poultry Meat can nourish the heart
► February (12)
► 2011 (37)
► December (1)
► November (19)
► October (17)
Comment
Copyright © Health and Beauty Info - All Rights Reserved
Proudly powered by Blogger