How To Safely Remove Skin Tags At Home Using THIS Inexpensive Bathroom Item
Navigation
Search
Search
3.8K Shares
Share
Pin
Email
WhatsApp
How To Safely Remove Skin Tags At Home Using THIS Inexpensive Bathroom Item
by DailyHealthPost Editorial November 27, 2015
Skin tags are little annoying flaps of skin that look a bit like warts (1).
They’re usually either pink or brown and small in size.
Skin tags are painless and harmless, but many people find them cosmetically unappealing.
Skin Tags vs. Warts
Skin tags are:
Smooth and soft
Knobby, they tend to hang off the skin
Spontaneous – it’s hard to predict if they’ll appear
Not contagious
Warts are:
Sign up for the DailyHealthPost newsletter.
All the doable stuff to live better naturally, sent to your inbox daily.🍎
SIGN UP
×
Enter your email below to sign up.
We hate SPAM and will NEVER violate your privacy.
Rough, with an irregular surface (2)
Flat
Caused by HPV (human papilloma virus)
Contagious, they often spread and appear in clusters
Why Do Skin Tags Appear?
Skin tags are benign tumours (non-cancerous) about the size of a grain of rice.
“The friction created by skin rubbing against skin, a side effect of being overweight, is what causes skin tags in certain people, and explains why skin tags often grow in body folds.” via EverydayHealth
Where Do they Form?
Skin tags usually appear around natural skin folds. This includes near the eyelids, neck, groin, armpits and under the breasts.
Who Gets Skin Tags?
Skin tags are actually as common as they are harmless. Everyone, with little exception, develops one in their lifetime.
People who are overweight and obese, probably because they have more skin folds and creases
Pregnant women – most likely because of the hormones secreted
Individuals with diabetes
People with the human papilloma virus (low-risk HPV 6 and 11)
Illegal steroid use – they interfere with the body and muscles, causing the collagen fibers in the skin to bond, allowing skin tags to be formed. via MedicalNewsToday
But that doesn’t mean that children, teens and young adults can’t get them too!
How To Get Rid Of Skin Tags
Other than being annoying, skin tags can get irritated by jewellery, clothing or shaving.
It’s always best to visit a dermatologist or doctor to get a proper diagnosis before attempting to remove skin tags. They can also freeze or cut off skin tags quite painlessly, especially in tricky spots.
This procedure isn’t typically covered by insurance, so if you want to clear them yourself, keep on reading!
How To Remove Skin Tags Using Thread
Whether you use a regular sewing thread or dental floss, blocking the blood flow to the skin tag will slowly kill it. This a proven method with a high success rate.
Skin Tag Solution #2: Tie with a String!
Watch this video on YouTube
Instructions:
clean the tag with alcohol
use a piece of sewing thread or dental floss and tie it tightly around the base of the skin tag
repeat the process for a few days (make sure to readjust the thread as the tag becomes smaller)
The skin tag will eventually shrivel up and fall off by itself.
sources:
[1]http://www.nhs.uk/conditions/skin-tags/pages/introduction.aspx
[2]http://www.nhs.uk/conditions/Warts/Pages/Introduction.aspx
Next »
Latest Headlines » Wellness » How To Safely Remove Skin Tags At Home Using THIS Inexpensive Bathroom Item
Sign up for the DailyHealthPost newsletter.
All the doable stuff to live better naturally, sent to your inbox daily.🍎
SIGN UP
×
Enter your email below to sign up.
We hate SPAM and will NEVER violate your privacy.
Sign up for the DailyHealthPost newsletter.
All the best from DailyHealthPost, sent to you daily.
All material provided within this website is for informational and educational purposes only, and is not to be construed as medical advice or instruction. No action should be taken solely on the contents of this website. Consult your physician or a qualified health professional on any matters regarding your health and well-being or on any opinions expressed within this website. The information provided in our newsletters and special reports is believed to be accurate based on the best judgement of the Company and the authors. However, the reader is responsible for consulting with their own health professional on any matters raised within. Neither the company nor the author's of any information provided accept responsibility for the actions or consequential results of any action taken by any reader.
© 2019 Daily Health Post
Terms
Privacy
Contact
About
Type and Press “enter” to Search