Baking Soda & Lemon Juice: Cancer Cure or Huge Scam? | NonStop Natural
NonStop Natural
Baking Soda & Lemon Juice: Cancer Cure or Huge Scam?
June 10, 2016 by Tammy Robinson 1 Comment
Have you read the latest “miracle cancer cure that Big Pharma doesn’t want you to know about”? Sometimes it seems as if there is a new one every week, but this one certainly caught our eye. Several sites are claiming that simple and inexpensive baking soda, sometimes with or without lemon juice, depending on the site, is the latest cancer cure.
Is this true? Could it be that something as simple as baking soda and/or lemon juice is the cure that is in front of everyone’s nose but no one sees? Is Big Pharma trying to keep it a secret because there is no money to be made? Everyone knows cancer is big business, right? Is that why no “cure” has been found?
To find out the truth, we need to turn to science and look at the facts.
Personal Claims
You can find hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of people on social media sites claiming that they were “cured” of a wide variety of cancers by all kinds of “natural” cures. Everything from cannabis oil to apricot kernel oil, raw vegan diets to sunlight therapy.
While these all sound really convincing, the truth is that it is impossible to tell whether or not these people were actually cured from their cancer by using any particular treatment. First off, did they actually have cancer? What type? What stage? What other changes did they make in their lifestyle, if any?
Many times, people go through a particular cancer treatment (surgery, radiation, and/or chemo) before they start taking cannabis oil or whatever other changes they are making, but they fail to mention it. Why? Because there is no money in saying that the colloidal silver someone is selling might have worked, but chances are that it was the chemotherapy that did the trick.
This is why clinical trials, listed with peer reviewed scientific or medical journals, are so important. Personal anecdotes or videos are next to worthless. They benefit no one because they cannot be duplicated and, therefore, used by others.
The Truth about Lemons
Sour as they are, there is no denying that lemons, like other citrus fruits, are good for you. They are a terrific source of vitamin C, which the body needs to build new skin tissue and support the immune system. They also have potassium, B6, folic acid, and fiber.
Some studies are using a photochemical from lemons, called limonene, in trials with humans, to see if it can dissolve gallstones and results look good at this time.
There have been some studies, including this one from the University of Florida in 2002, which found that lemons, like many citrus fruits, might help inhibit breast and prostate cancer in studies done with mice, but take note: the large intestine does not absorb the limonoids that might inhibit cancer. For this to be effective, an extract would have to be created.
Another study from Texas A&M, found similar results. All citrus fruits contain limonoids, not just lemons, and that while they might be able to suppress cancer cells, there are currently no studies which show this conclusively. There are no studies showing that lemon juice is “10,000 times stronger than chemo”, or any other magic claim.
One last note on lemon juice, (or any other acidic compound), it won’t magically change from being acidic to alkaline once you consume it. If you have ever had indigestion, would you consider eating or drinking lemons to make it better? Of course not. If you don’t believe us, try it sometime. Have some lemon juice in water the next time you have a case of indigestion. That lemon juice will NOT be neutralizing the acid in your stomach.
You can’t change the neutral alkalinity of your blood due to process called homeostasis. If you don’t know what this is, you can read about it here.
Back to Baking Soda
You might have heard that cancer is “always white” and, therefore, is somehow related to fungus. The most common fungus name tossed around is Candida. The solution, you are told, is simple – baking soda. It kills fungus! It also kills cancer cells on contact. “Cancer cannot live in an alkaline environment”. You’ve probably heard this hundreds of times.
And they are right….kind of. It’s true, in a Petri dish; baking soda WILL kill cancer cells. But it will also kill any other cell you put in the dish. Nothing can live once it is doused with baking soda. Nothing.
Also, all cancers are not white. One quick Google search will quickly disprove this statement. (Just don’t do that search right before or after lunch!) So while there is no proof that Candida or any other fungus is the beginning of cancer, there is plenty of proof (going way back to at least 1902) that cancer is our own bodies going a little berserk.
This is one of the problems with “one size fits all” cancer “cures”. Cancer has at least 500 known malfunctions within the cells of the body. How can we expect one thing, no matter how natural or cleverly synthetic, will cure it?
The Dangers of Baking Soda
There is one thing that almost none of these sites will tell you – baking soda can actually be fatal if you consume too much of it. The key to life is moderation. The body is not designed to deal with excessive amounts (or complete absence) of ANYTHING, no matter how “natural” it might be. Sunshine, water, vitamins, food, can all be deadly if we have too much or not enough. The same is true of baking soda. Check out this example of a patient who tried injecting baking soda directly into her breast cancer at an “alternative medicine” clinic.
While there are studies being done to see if baking soda could somehow be used in therapy to help cancer patients, there is currently NO SCIENTIFIC PROOF that baking soda can do anything more than relieve the pain of mouth sores and ease indigestion.
It has been estimated that, based on the average weight of 150 pound person, that a dose of 12 grams of baking soda would be needed to attempt to counteract the acid produced by a one cubic millimeter tumor!
The Bottom Line
While social media sites are simply drowning in videos and personal testaments about everything from bleach enemas to cannabis oil, none of these are scientific evidence that something works for everyone or anyone at all!
If you haven’t done so yet, check out Wikipedia’s excellent list of proven cancer treatments that simply do not work.
What about all the cases of people who tried something, but died anyway? You don’t hear about those cases, do you? Why? Because it doesn’t sell.
This doesn’t mean that the natural world has nothing to offer us. The truth is that we simply haven’t found it yet. A cure for cancer will probably involve different therapies to suit all the different types of cancer that there are, but until something is proven, it’s just someone’s opinion and, let’s face it, everyone has one, right?
Filed Under: Anti-Cancer, Cleanse, Foods, Health, Healthy Living, How To, Natural, Shocking, Truth or Fiction Tagged With: alternative cancer treatment, lemon juice and baking soda, natural cancer cure, natural cancer treatment, truth about baking soda, truth about lemon juice, truth about natural cancer cures
Comments
Joe says
October 1, 2017 at 11:13 pm
If no scientific data 99th en how do you know that it takes 12 grams?
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Categories
About
Air Quality
Alkaline diet
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Anti-Cancer
Antibiotics
Autism
B17
B17 Cancer Cure
Bacteria and Germs
Bitter Almonds
Cancer
Cancer cure hoax
Cancer Scam
Cannabis
Children
Cleaning
Cleanse
Cold and Flu
Contamination
Crystals
Dehydration
Dehydration dangers
Depression
Detox
Digestion
Do It Yourself
Essential Oils
Exercise
Fish
Foods
Gifts
Gluten Sensitivity
Glyphosate
GMOs
Hair and Skin
Health
Health Fads
Healthy Eating
Healthy Living
Herbs
How To
Insects
Laetrile
Longer Life
Mental Health
Monsanto
Natural
Nutrition
Off Beat
Oils
Organic
Pain Relief
pesticides
Pests
Plants
Produce
Seniors/Elderly
Shocking
Sleep
Soda
Soy
Spices
Supplements
Tips and Advise
Toxins
Truth
Truth or Fiction
Vaccines
Vegetables
Vitamins
Vitamins and Minerals
Water
Weight Loss
Women
Women's Health
Yoga
Zika Virus
Recent Stories
Top 5 Treadmills for 2017: We Have One for Every Budget and Every Space
Top 5 Bamboo Sheets of 2017: Super Soft and Super Earth Friendly
Top 10 Detox Teas to Cleanse Your Body After the Holidays
Make it a Dazzling New Year by Adding One Beautiful Thing
Top 10 Must Have Items for a Home Gym
Recent Comments
Bryan Yeubrey on Bitter Almonds and Cancer: Here is the Bitter Truth of It.
Sedric on Love Halo Cutie Oranges but Hate How They Are Grown? Read This!
Eni on Love Halo Cutie Oranges but Hate How They Are Grown? Read This!
Karen Linka on Love Halo Cutie Oranges but Hate How They Are Grown? Read This!
Annie Breglia on Love Halo Cutie Oranges but Hate How They Are Grown? Read This!
Copyright © 2019 · eleven40 Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in