Lucy's Cruelty-Free Beauty and Living: 9 Health Benefits of Creating A Living Space with Himalayan Salt
Pages
Home
About Me 🐚
Media Kit 🐰
Write For Us 💙
Affiliates🌊
9 Health Benefits of Creating A Living Space with Himalayan Salt
Thursday, March 15, 2018
Did you know that creating a magical and meditative space could improve your health? If you are looking for a space which could offer you more than peace of mind, then you should really check out a Himalayan salt lamp. This natural piece of home decor promises to give off a comfortable lifestyle, while it detoxifies the space and provides a therapeutic glow.
Keep reading to learn 9 health benefits of creating a living space with gorgeous Himalayan salt lamps ✨
A Himalayan salt lamp promises numerous healing properties that can benefit your health. It is highly recommended to get one or two lamps for the best effects. Himalayan salt lamps serve various purposes, thus their importance really cannot be denied. From forming a special, unique gift to being a decorative statement piece in your home, the Himalayan salt lamp has never disappointed anyone.
Himalayan salt lamps are the best air purifiers
Himalayan salts offer great benefits, one of which is removing contaminants like dust, smoke, and pollen from the air. Using a salt lamp is an amazing way to help the body reap healthful gains. It won’t only strengthen it but by providing a pure environment it will make one a healthy human being.
Get rid of allergies and asthma symptoms with a salt lamp
Those who suffer from respiratory problems are sure to find relief. The salt lamp works such that by absorbing the water content from its surroundings, it creates an equilibrium state. It absorbs water vapors because the lamp is made up of salt which attracts the vapors. After that state, the lamp doesn’t absorb more as it gets saturated with it. The moment these Himalayan salt lamps are lit up; they trap evaporated water from their surrounding and cleanse it.
As Himalayan salts counteract the negative effects thrown by positive ions in the air, they also aide in removing symptom-causing particles which result in a purified room. One who suffers from asthma will surely get relief by the use of salt lamps and will notice the improvement in breathing greatly. There are many claims from asthma patients that they themselves benefited from the inclusion of a salt lamp in their surroundings. Along with treating asthma, the lamp also treats issues such as bronchitis and respiratory ailments.
A Himalayan salt lamp shoots up energy levels and fades stress
Himalayan salt proudly claims that it owns the ability to energize the body. When one returns home and absorbs the positive energy of a Himalayan salt lamp, then relief is guaranteed to find its way. By soothing your nerves, the Himalayan salt has the capability of sucking up stress. It will boost your energy level and revitalize you. The bold claims of Himalayan salt lamps are due to the negative ions it releases. Those ions penetrate into your bloodstream and produce biochemical reactions which shoot up the chemicals in the brain that remove depression and anxiety.
The lamp helps you say no to insomnia
Mined Natural Salt provides a whopping 84 trace minerals, plus a unique ionic energy that is released when the Pink salt is mixed with water.
It is so common that after a long day of work, one suffers from sleep loss due to fatigue. To help with such a problem, salt lamps come to the rescue. The lamps help in eliminating the restfulness giving peace in return. One may suffer from sleeplessness due to positively charged particles filling the air. Those positive ions are the sole source of sloping one's energy towards extinction. The positively charged particles are sure to trim down the oxygen and blood supply leading to rough sleep patterns, but with a salt lamp, gone are those days when you experienced laziness in the mornings and yawned throughout the day as a consequence of sleep deprivation.
It treats harmful electromagnetic radiation
This world is impossible to imagine without technology. We are surrounded by electronic gadgets more than we can imagine. There is no doubt, that these devices have simplified our lives but no one pays attention to the harm they may bring. The electromagnetic radiation these devices produce are a major cause of fatigue. These invisible particles can even lower your immunity. The constant exposure to these particles, have been led to serious conditions. In such scenarios, the Himalayan salt lamps are of great help. These air ionizers spread the negative ions which neutralize harmful radiation.
A salt lamp helps treat skin disorders
Now no need to deal with or worry about skin disorders. Some skin are so sensitive they can easily be affected by dust particles. Himalayan salt lamps play the role of eliminating the cause of such skin problems. Air purification can aid in removing such symptoms paired with other treatments.
It diminishes the effect of static electricity
The static energy which is present in every other household is an annoyance to many people without them even knowing it. One suffers not just the loss of sleep due to this but also the irritation of the eyes. Being energy efficient, the Himalayan salt lamp paves the way for a natural path to neutralize the airborne particles. By getting the air neutralized, Himalayan salt lamps reduce the amount of static electricity.
The lamp lifts up your mood
Salt lamps not only provide the benefit of increasing energy levels but also in elevating the mood. So in this case, the lamp becomes a treat for those who suffer from Seasonal Affective Disorder. By absorbing the soothing hues and warm mystical glow of the lamp, one is also sure to increase focus.
A salt lamp helps to ease coughing
If you want a reduction in your coughing, then you need to have increment in cilial activity. The hairs which line the trachea are known as cilia. The cilial activity mounts up with negative ions, whereas positive ions prove to negatively impact it. To keep your lungs clean and breathe a healthier air, a salt lamp is sure to help make an improvement.
By purifying the air, a salt lamp ensures that contaminants contributing to lung problems won’t penetrate into your bloodstream. By removing such particles, the air will easily filter through one's body. So experience the maximum benefit of a pure, clean air by incorporating these beautifully handcrafted pink salt lamps into your life.
About the Author - Jeffrey Lewis
Hey there, friend! I’m Jeffrey. I’m a blogger at ittefaqco.com. Thank you for joining me as I share different aspects of my life; I’m so thrilled you stopped by! I love working to create a beautiful, thriving life around me and helping others do the same. I love writing about nature, health, Himalayan salt and home décor related topics.
Posted by Cruelty Free Lucy
Labels: guest post, health, salt lamp
No comments:
Post a Comment
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
I am a Miami native and South Florida blogger with an obsession for cruelty-free beauty & lifestyle. Beauty & animals are my two biggest passions. As a blogger, I strive to provide my readers with content that is both relevant & impacting as I only test and review cruelty-free products. I also blog about my life, local events, and anything that may be tickling my fancy!
Follow
dealspotr.com
"The purity of a person's heart can be quickly measured by how they regard animals" | Hazel Nicholson
Saying Goodbye to Dry, Winter Skin with Natural & Organic Anti Aging Skincare from California Pure Naturals
You are probably thinking to yourself how I could have dry, winter skin living in South Florida! LOL! I definitely think there are two...
eSalon: Quality Hair Color at Home
From the eSalon website: "eSalon was inspired by the idea that beautiful, quality hair color can be accessible without the uncer...
I Won't Be Writing Any New Year's Resolutions Ever Again + Keeping the Energy Flowing with Gratitude & Intention
This past holiday season I was fairly disconnected from my blog...Should I have written a holiday guide...probably...should I have po...
Please note that this blog was created for entertainment purposes only. You can read my full disclosure here or learn more about me, why I blog and how I got started here. Feel free to shoot me an email if you have any questions, comments or just want to chat!
Lucy Valdez © 2015
All content owned and created by Lucy Valdez | Lucy's Cruelty Free Beauty
Design By: