5 Best Tips For Breastfeeding During Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant >
How To Get Pregnant
Symptoms
Body Care
Infertility
Pregnancy>
Pregnancy Week by Week
Food
bio-oil
Second Pregnancy
Safety
Fitness
Giving Birth
Health
Post Pregnancy
Baby>
Product Reviews
Choose Gentle
Breastfeeding
Food
Development
Sleep
Health
Products
Safety
Baby Names
Browse Names
Play & Activities
Himalaya Baby Care
Baby Dove
Toddler>
Fisher Price
Development
Food
Pediasure
Sleep
Safety
Health
Behavior
Education
Play & Activities
Coloring pics
Kid>
Development
Food & Nutrition
Health & Fitness
Safety
Products
Education
Behavior
Play & Activities
Style & Beauty Care
Teens>
Development
Food & Nutrition
Health & Fitness
Safety
Products
Education
Behavior
Play & Activities
Style & Beauty Care
For You>
New Parents
Single Parenting
Adoption
Relationships
Trending
Tools>
Baby Eye Color Calculator
Online Pregnancy Test
Chinese Gender Predictor
Implantation Calculator
hCG Calculator
Period Calculator
ovulation calculator
pregnancy due date calculator
Child Height Predictor
Pregnancy Weight Gain Calculator
Breast Milk Calculator
Child Growth Percentile Calculator
Baby Cost Calculator
BMI Calculator For Kids & Teens
Contraction Calculator
Immunization Scheduler and Chart
C-Section Checklist
Online Twin Pregnancy Quiz
Numerology calculator
Child Blood Type Calculator
Nakshatra Calculator
Diaper Bag Checklist
> हिंदी
गर्भावस्था
शिशु
×
Home » Pregnancy » Health
5 Best Tips For Breastfeeding During Pregnancy
Rebecca Malachi Written by Rebecca Malachi
April 04, 2019 April 4, 2019
Image: Shutterstock
IN THIS ARTICLE
Is It Safe To Breastfeed Your Baby While Pregnant?
Breastfeeding While Pregnant – Myths And Facts
How Many Calories Should You Consume While Breastfeeding During Pregnancy?
Tips For Breastfeeding While Pregnant
Frequently Asked Questions
Do you plan to breastfeed your toddler into your subsequent pregnancy?
If yes, it is imperative that you get enough nutrition, hydration, and energy to support your body, the unborn child, and the nursing child, all at the same time. While breastfeeding during pregnancy is common, you may find yourself with a host of questions that can be overwhelming.
To address your dilemmas, read this MomJunction post. Here, we tell you how safe is it to breastfeed a baby during pregnancy, the myths surrounding it and how you can balance all of it together.
Is It Safe To Breastfeed Your Baby While Pregnant?
Sponsored
Yes, it is safe to breastfeed when you are pregnant, as long as you feel healthy (1).
When you breastfeed, a hormone called oxytocin is released. Most women worry that this hormone can cause uterine contractions and preterm labor. However, oxytocin alone is not enough to dilate your cervix or cause contractions. Therefore, it is safe for both the mother and the fetus (2).
However, note that the taste of the breastmilk changes as your body will produce colostrum (3). This will alter how your older child experiences and reacts to breastfeeding. Your unborn baby, on the other hand, will continue to receive proper nutrition from your body.
Including a well-balanced diet is essential to support both your unborn baby and your toddler. If you are still in doubt, keep reading to learn about the myths that make breastfeeding during pregnancy seem unsafe.
Breastfeeding While Pregnant – Myths And Facts
In this section, we try to thwart the myths that surround breastfeeding during pregnancy.
Myth one: Breastfeeding mothers cannot conceive
Fact: A woman’s body is one of nature’s amazing creations. When you breastfeed, your body will delay ovulation as a way to space the babies and protect you from stress. Usually, ovulation resumes as early as six weeks or as far as one year after the delivery, enabling you to get pregnant (4). If you are not ready for another baby at this time, use contraception.
Myth two: The nursing child will wean when you are pregnant
Fact: The nursing child will recognize the changes in your breast milk, but may not entirely resist it. The hormonal changes also make the child moody and cranky. So, it is a good time to wean the child, even if the child will initially resist it. But if you do not want to wean the nursing toddler, talk to the doctor (5).
Myth three: Only one child receives the nutrition
Fact: If you can get pregnant when breastfeeding a baby, then you are healthy enough to deal with two children. Your body makes all the necessary nutrients to provide for both the baby growing inside and the nursing baby. What you need to do, however, is eat healthily to provide nourishment for both.
Myth four: Breastfeeding causes early labor
Fact: Breastfeeding results in oxytocin release and nipple simulation, both of which could bring early labor. But the fact is that the uterus prepares for labor only when the baby is ready. Therefore, breastfeeding during pregnancy will not cause early labor (6).
Myth five: Breastfeeding during pregnancy causes a miscarriage
Fact: There is no proof showing that breastfeeding women are at a higher risk of miscarriage. Although the oxytocin hormone brings on contractions, they are not strong enough for inducing labor. The contractions stop early for your unborn baby to have enough room (6).
If you are healthy enough, you can support your pregnancy while also providing nourishment for your breastfeeding toddler. Keep reading to know how you can get enough sustenance to support your babies and your body during pregnancy.
How Many Calories Should You Consume While Breastfeeding During Pregnancy?
If you are breastfeeding during pregnancy, you need to eat enough to sustain three lives. So the number of calories you should consume also increase.
You should be consuming an additional of 300 to 500 calories every day to meet the energy requirements of the unborn baby (7). Additionally, you may need 500 extra calories to breastfeed. Therefore, a total of around 1,000 calories are required every day to meet the nutritional needs of the developing baby and the older child (8).
Next, we give you a few tips that help you manage your health better for nurturing your nursing toddler and the unborn baby.
Tips For Breastfeeding While Pregnant
Here are a few things to remember if you choose to breastfeed the child into your subsequent pregnancy.
1. Check with your doctor first
Although trace amounts of pregnancy hormones in the milk are safe for the nursing baby, your doctor will advise you to wean the child if you:
Are carrying twin babies or multiples
Have a high-risk pregnancy
Have uterine bleeding or pain
Checking with your doctor helps in determining whether or not you should continue to breastfeed.
2. Sit or lie down during breastfeeding
Some women experience fatigue due to breastfeeding in pregnancy. This is possible since more energy consumption can make you tired. Therefore, sitting or lying down in a relaxed position gives you extra time to rest when your baby is feeding. As the pregnancy progresses, you have to think of innovative ways that keep you and the baby comfortable while nursing (9).
3. Monitor milk supply
The milk supply begins to reduce around the fourth or fifth month after delivery. Therefore it is important to check if the nursing baby is satisfied with the supply of milk and if it is meeting their weight and growth markers. Discussing this with a lactation specialist or a pediatrician can be helpful.
4. Check your diet
As mentioned earlier, it is crucial that you eat well for the health of the fetus, nursing baby and you. Both pregnancy and breastfeeding utilize plenty of calories so choose healthy and nutrient-dense foods. Take prenatal supplements for adequate intake of iron, folic acid, and calcium. Drink lots of water or fluids (10).
5. Breast or nipple care
Breast soreness and nipple tenderness as a result of early pregnancy will intensify while breastfeeding. In such cases, using hydrogel pads, coconut oil, and lanolin creams will bring the needed relief (11).
Are you still having doubts? Read the next section, where we answer a few commonly asked questions about breastfeeding during pregnancy.
Frequently Asked Questions
1. When should you not breastfeed your baby during pregnancy?
You may have to stop breastfeeding your baby in case you have a high-risk pregnancy. It is also not recommended if you are HIV positive, undergoing radiation treatments, anemic, dealing with hypoplasia (where mammary glands do not develop normally) or recovering from a breast reduction surgery.
2. What if you are not able to breastfeed your baby during pregnancy?
If you cannot breastfeed your baby due to health concerns, you should make up for the baby’s nourishment through other foods. If your older baby is below six months, you may introduce formula milk. And if he is older than six months, you can start giving solid foods along with formula feed. Though it might take time, your child will gradually adjust to the change.
3. Does your milk supply drop when pregnant?
Milk supply, as well as composition, usually reduces around the fourth or fifth month of pregnancy. This could be due to hormonal changes, frequent nursing or pumping the breast milk.
While you can nurse a baby as long as you can, weaning them is better when you conceive again. It could be challenging initially, but try weaning slowly and encourage shorter feeds or increase the gap between feeds. If the baby is older, you can help them to give up breast milk by making healthy solid foods more interesting.
Most importantly, you do not have to worry or feel guilty about weaning the child, since you have already provided them with enough nutrition via breastfeeding until now.
Do you have any tips for our other readers? Share them in the comment section below.
References:
1. Madarshahian F and Hassanabadi M; A comparative study of breastfeeding during pregnancy: impact on maternal and newborn outcomes; J Nurs Res (2012)
2. SESSION 2The physiological basis of breastfeeding; Infant and Young Child Feeding: Model Chapter for Textbooks for Medical Students and Allied Health Professionals, WHO (2009)
3. Judith Lauwers and Debbie Shinskie; Counseling the Nursing Mother: A Lactation Consultant’s Guide; Page 410
4. McNeilly AS et al.; Fertility after childbirth: pregnancy associated with breast feeding; Clin Endocrinol (Oxf) (1983)
5. Weaning your baby; U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
6. Maysara M. Albadran; Effect of Breastfeeding during Pregnancy on the Occurrence of Miscarriage and Preterm Labour; Iraqi JMS (2013)
7. Nutritional Needs During Pregnancy and Breastfeeding; Ohio State University Extension
8. Robyn Horsager-Boehrer; Can I breastfeed during pregnancy; The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
9. How a baby breastfeeds; Stanford Medicine Newborn Nursery at Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital
10. Jaime Foster; Nutritional Needs During Pregnancy and Breastfeeding; The Ohio State University
11. Breastfeeding Basics; The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center (2019)
The following two tabs change content below.
Latest Posts
Bio
Latest posts by Rebecca Malachi (see all)
Fetal Heartbeat: Week-By-Week Chart And Methods Used To Monitor It - April 2, 2019
5 Best Tips For Breastfeeding During Pregnancy - April 2, 2019
What is an Anomaly Scan And How Is It Done? - April 2, 2019
What Teas Are Safe To Drink While Pregnant? - April 2, 2019
15 Common Pregnancy Fears And Why You Don't Have To Worry - April 2, 2019
Blighted Ovum: Causes, Symptoms And Treatment - April 1, 2019
Ectopic Pregnancy: Causes, Symptoms And Treatment - March 29, 2019
Does Nipple Stimulation Help Induce Labor? - March 28, 2019
101 Funny Pregnancy Quotes - March 27, 2019
31 Best Gifts For Pregnant Women - March 26, 2019
Rebecca Malachi
She is a Biotechnologist with a proficiency in areas of genetics, immunology, microbiology, bio-engineering, chemical engineering, medicine, pharmaceuticals to name a few. Her expertise in these fields has greatly assisted her in writing medical and life science articles. With 8+ years of work experience in writing for health and wellness, she is now a full-time contributor for Momjunction.com. She is passionate about giving research-based information to readers in need. Apart from writing, she is a foodie, loves travel, fond of gospel music and enjoys observing nature in silence. Know more about her at: linkedin.com/in/kothapalli-rebecca-35881628
Incnut Incnut Incnut
Hotpicks
22 Reasons Why You Are Not Getting Pregnant
5 Best Ways To Deal With Aggressive Behavior In Children
Is It Safe To Eat Pineapple During Pregnancy?
5 Effective Treatments To Cure Bug Bites In Babies
Related Articles
4 Wonderful Health Benefits Of Boxing During Pregnancy
Relaxin Hormone During Pregnancy – Everything You Need To Know
6 Wonderful Tips To Boost Your Immune System During Pregnancy
5 Amazing Benefits Of Cauliflower During Pregnancy
Tapeworm During Pregnancy - 6 Causes, 20 Symptoms And 5 Treatments You Should Be Aware Of
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with us
Doctors, Join Us
Mommy Influencer Network
Report Violation
Image Usage Policy
Privacy Policy
Editorial Policy
Disclaimer
Follow Us:
Our Sister Sites:
Copyright 2019 Mom Junction
MomJunction provides generic information on health for educational purposes only. It is not a substitute for professional health services, and cannot be used as a replacement for personalized health consultation. If you or your child has any health concerns, you should consult a healthcare professional. Please read our Disclaimer before proceeding to use our website.