Stomach |
Skip to content
Category: Stomach
Natural homemade drinks to reduce belly fat
Most of the people want to lose their belly fat that accumulates around the midsection. This gives ugly and unattractive look that is dangerous for your health. This may lead to high blood pressure, diabetes, heart diseases, fatty liver diseases, stroke etc. It can be caused due to weak metabolism, certain diseases, hormonal changes, stress, overeating etc. Here you have best remedy to lose this belly fat.
Homemade drinks and remedies reduce belly fat
Lemon water to prevent extra fat in belly
The stressed liver will not metabolize. So lemon water increases the enzymes to detoxify the liver. The fat efficiently and that gets deposited around your abdomen. This juice helps to carry out the basic function effectively. Take 1 lemon and 1 glass of water. Squeeze juice from lemon and warm water into it. Stir them well and drink this warm lemon water on an empty stomach in the morning. Make sure that not to eat anything for 30 minutes after. Lemon juice early in the morning gives relief from belly fat. In the morning, daily on an empty stomach results best.
Ginger tea to reduce belly fat
Ginger is a natural digestion thermogenic agent that increases the body temperature and helps to burn the fat more easily and perfectly in a short span of time. Belly fat is because of overeating, stress, lack of exercise, and hormone reduction. Ginger suppresses the production of steroid hormone, as it mobilizes energy regulation. Daily consumption of ginger tea loses the tummy fat.
Take 1 – 2 inch of ginger, 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon of honey, 4 cups of water, and a teapot. Take water in a teapot and place it on the stove. Boil water for a few minutes and then add ginger to that water. Let it simmer for 5 – 10 minutes. Then remove it from the stove. Add freshly squeezed lemon juice and honey to it. Mix the well and drink in the morning. It helps the digestion that reduces the cortical production. Drink at least 2 -3 cups of ginger tea once in the morning, afternoon, and dinner.
Cranberry juice for flat belly
Cranberries contain organic acids such as malic acid, citric acid and the quinic acid that acts as a digestive enzyme. It will act as emulsifying agents on your stubborn fat that is deposited in the lymphatic system. It helps to digest and reduce the fat. Take unsweetened 1 cup or 8 Oz cranberry juice, 7 cups or 56 Oz of water. Take cranberry juice and mix it in water. Drink this one cup at a time and continue drinking throughout the day. You can have a cup of this cranberry juice or water before breakfast, lunch, at snack time, after dinner and any other times of the day as per your convenience.
Green tea to lose belly fat
Drinking 4 cups of green tea everyday help to lose more than 6 pounds of weight and fat within 8 weeks. It has natural phenol and has anti-oxidants. Green tea will help to boost up your metabolism. Take 1 – 2 teaspoons or tea bags of green tea, ½ – 1 teaspoon of lemon juice, 1cup of hot water, 5 mint or basil leaves, honey if you want. Take a green tea bag and mint or basil leaves add them in a cup of hot water and stir it. Cover it and allow it to steep for about 7 – 10 minutes. Then strain the tea, then add lemon juice and honey into it. Mix them well and drink it. Daily 3 – 4 cups of green tea are preferably after meals.
Herbal treatment to reduce tummy fat
Ginger, cucumber, and mint are some of the herbs that help to reduce tummy fat. It is excellent to burn fat like lemon. Cucumber contains water and dietary fiber that helps to lose weight. Ginger allows your blood vessels to expand for better blood circulation. Mint calms down your craving that soothes the tummy after indulge in foods. Lemon is rich in vitamin C, anti-oxidant properties that burns fat.
Take 1 medium sized cucumber, 1 teaspoon of ginger or 1 – 2 inch piece, 10 – 12 sprigs of mint leaves, 1 lemon, and 2 liters of water. Cut the lemon and cucumber into slices. Take a bowl and add all the ingredients in water. Stir them well and soak it for overnight. In the morning, drink this water. Repeat it regularly to get complete relief.
Apple cider vinegar drink to reduce belly fat
The water keeps you hydrated and when mixed with apple cider vinegar boost your metabolism. This helps you for the body’s metabolism and can start working properly. This allows you to lose weight. Lemon juice when mixed with vinegar taste little more bearable. The organic apple cider vinegar gets tried natural remedy to lose weight. The diet specialists recommended apple cider vinegar to remove extra fats from the body. This helps to burn your calories. This will burn fat and helps in weight loss, which improves digestion and can flush out toxins from the body that increases weight. This suppresses hunger and can control the intake of food. Drink this fat burner drink twice daily to burn belly fat.
Take 1 teaspoon of apple cider vinegar, 1 teaspoon of lemon juice, 1 teaspoon of honey, 1 glass of water. Mix all the ingredients well and drink it for every 3 hours before every meal for 3 times a day. Alternatively, 64oz/8 glasses of water, 8 teaspoons of organic ACV and 8 teaspoons of honey. Mix all the ingredients well in one 8 ounce glass for every 3 hours before going to get every meal for 3 times daily.
Garlic to decrease belly fat
Garlic is an excellent anti-obesity property that helps to get rid of belly fat. This reduces systolic, diastolic blood pressure and triglycerides. This can increase the good cholesterol. Garlic avoids conversion of pre fat cells into fat cells.
Take 3 garlic cloves, 1 lemon and 1 cup of water. Squeeze out fresh lemon juice in a cup of water. Mix them well. Chew some raw garlic cloves and drink them on an empty stomach. Repeat this on every morning within 2 weeks.
Naturally dandelion tea to lose belly fat
The belly fat reduces because of water maintenance and dandelion herb acts as a natural diuretic. It expands your pee yield and can enhance your liver’s working limit. This helps to flush out and can hold the water and is poisoned out of your body, this is particularly from belly zone. This also helps to prevent stomach bloating. The consolidated with some fat lessening flavors, dandelion tea gives a great helps to lose belly fat naturally. Dandelion root 1 tablespoon or dandelion root powder 1 teaspoon, new ginger, minced half crawl piece, 1 cardamom seeds, half creeps piece, 4 – 5 mint leaves, 1 – ½ mug of water, 1 – 2 teaspoon of nectar to taste. Mix all the ingredients well. Heat the water and let them boil. Heat it up to 5 – 10 minutes. Strain the tea and add nectar. Blend well that has flavorful dandelion root tea.
Author Beauty Health TipsPosted on Jun 7, 2016 Jun 7, 2016 Categories Stomach
Best food that will reduce belly fat
Belly fat is excessive fat formed around the stomach. It looks odd when you wear tight clothes. So with the help of diet you can control and change the belly fat without any side effects. Trim your tummy with the natural home remedies. There are various fat burning foods and spices that help to lose belly fat. A balanced diet that helps to detox the liver and boosts up the metabolism. Thus, it helps to lose abdominal fat. We have many burning foods or a spice that helps to lose the tummy fat.
Causes of belly fat
Heavy consumption of carbohydrates
Genetics
Sedentary lifestyle
Outside junk food
Food with more calories
Lack of physical activity in daily routine
Intake of heavy food and go to bed
Home remedies to lose tummy/belly fat
Honey for flat belly
Honey contains spores, which can cause botulism. Honey helps with immune systems that are relatively weak; they are highest risk for botulism. Honey can reduce belly fat on regular consumption. Take a medium glass of hot water. Add 1 lemon juice and 1 tablespoon of honey to it. Drink this juice in the early morning on empty stomach.
Tomatoes for abdominal fat
Tomatoes are rich in 9 Oxo–ODA compound that helps to reduce lipids in the blood. This helps to control belly fat and fights against chronic diseases that are associated with obesity. Tomato reduces belly fat. Eating raw tomatoes one per day will reduce abdominal fat.
Mint to get a flat tummy
Mint soothes the tummy, honey and pepper dissolves easily in the fat and also boosts the metabolism. Take 1 tablespoon of honey, a pinch of pepper, and some crushed mint leaves. Take a cup of hot water and mix all ingredients in it. Let it steep for 5 minutes and strain the solution. Drink this liquid to get a flat tummy.
How to reduce belly fat with curry leaves
Curry leaves help to detoxify the body automatically. This leads to less accumulation of fat on the tummy. You can add fresh curry leaves into your salads and can add them into your recipes. Curry leaves are good for health and also gives long thick hair
Cinnamon to reduce body weight
Cinnamon works as a great fat burner. Take ½ tablespoon of cinnamon powder and steep it in water for about 5 minutes. Then add 1 tablespoon of honey into it. Strain the solution and drink this water. It is better to consume before going to bed.
Garlic for weight loss
Garlic is the best remedy to reduce belly fat. Eat 3 – 4 cloves of raw garlic and chew them in the morning. Drink the lemon water after consuming garlic. It is the best home remedy to reduce belly fat. Garlic on an empty stomach helps to improve immune system.
Watermelon for stomach fat
Watermelon is the best food to cut down body fat. It contains 82% of water that is rich in vitamin C. This is rich in diuretic acid that keeps you feeling full longer and can help to clear water retention. Watermelon helps to reduce stomach fat.
How to get flat tummy with cucumber
Cucumber can refresh you with low calorie food. This makes you stay cool. Cucumber contains 96% of water and 45 calories. Cucumber helps your diet as a salad or you may have it as raw to get a flat tummy.
Best food to reduce belly fat is eggs
Egg helps to burn the fat. Consume it as an omelet in the morning. Egg is heavily loaded with plenty of vitamins and contains calcium, zinc, iron, phosphorous, omega 3 etc. Eggs are rich in Vitamin B12, which helps in metabolizing body fat. This helps to lose weight than those who ate bagels.
Yogurt best diet
Yogurt helps to gain more weight. But plain yogurt helps to cut down the excess fat from the belly. Eat only Greek and plain yogurt to reduce the belly fat. Dairy products such as milk, cheese, and yogurt are great sources of calcium. This helps in eating three servings of dairy a day. This results in a rest of your diet in check.
Home treatment Hot water
Hot water on an empty stomach cleanses the body thoroughly. Drink around 1 liter of hot water on an empty stomach. Hot water helps in easy digestion and improves your digestive system. This also removes unwanted stomach acids in the body.
Herbal tip with ginger for belly
Ginger and pepper will increase the metabolic rate that helps to decrease the belly fat. This will steep up your water and add a piece of ginger into it. Add honey and pepper to it. Let it simmer for about 5 minutes. Then honey helps to dissolve the fat. Drink this solution daily until you notice the result.
Apple cider vinegar best source for fat reduction
Add apple cider vinegar into your diet. This will make your stomach fuller, thereby curbing your appetite. It helps to reduce the fat on your tummy. It regulates the blood sugar level also.
Cardamon to lose weight
Cardamom can be used for losing weight. It has great metabolism and can act as a booster and an amazing detoxifying agent. Cardamon tea or its powder mixed in coffee give better results. This helps to reduce your belly fat.
Lemon for weight loss
Lemon juice helps to reduce belly fat soon. Into it add lemon juice in a glass of water. Add a pinch of salt and stir them well. Drink this every morning on an empty stomach. Lemon helps in easy digestion and reduce belly fat.
Almonds prevent hunger
Almonds are rich in vitamin E. Daily consumption of almonds that makes you to full for a long time. Almonds help prevent mid meal cravings as they are healthy fats. Eating almonds suppress hunger.
Fiber rich food is beans
Beans help to reduce the belly fat. They are rich in fiber that makes your stomach full. The fewer calories helps to consume, the less that would get chances of getting fat. Beans are rich in fiber content that helps in easy digestion.
Apple to be healthy
Eating apple helps in fighting many diseases. Apple helps to reduce the fat from your belly. Apple helps to feel full as it contains potassium and many vitamins. Eat an apple in breakfast to get desired tummy size.
Author Beauty Health TipsPosted on May 19, 2016 May 19, 2016 Categories StomachTags abdominal, belly, diet, foods, stomach, tummy
Recent Posts
Waterborne diseases: symptoms, causes, preventions – Types of waterborne diseases
Home remedies for chikungunya – How to recover from chikungunya fever
How to use rice water for skin and hair – Beauty benefits of rice water
Home remedies for gas problem – How to get rid of gastric problems
Home remedies for neck pain – Causes of neck strain
Proudly powered by WordPress