Cell Phones Radiaton & Koobi “Can Cause” Brain Cancer? Part 1 | Cell Phone Radiation News
Skip to content Skip to main menu
Cell Phone Radiation News
Menu
Mobile menu toggle
Home
ACOUSTIC NEUROMAS
BIOPRO CELL CHIP HOME HARMONIZER
BIOPRO CELL CHIP PREOTECTION
CANCER PROTECTION
CELL PHONE HAZARDS
CELL PHONE RADIATION
CELL PHONES PROTECTION
CELL TOWER DANGERS
CELL TOWER HEALTH
CELL TOWER PROTECTION
CELL TOWER SAFETY
ELECTRICAL HYPERSENSITIVITY
ELECTRICAL SENSITIVITIES
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION PROTECTION
EMF PROTECTION DEVICES
HEALTH RISKS
HYPERSENSITIVITY SYMPTOMS
Q LINK PENDANT
Q-LINK BRACELET GOLF
Q-LINK PENDANT AND CELL PHONE RADIATION PROTECTION
Q-LINKS PENDANT PROTECTION
QLINK PENDANT
QLINK PENDANT EMF PROTECTION
QLINK PENDANT REVIEWS
WIFI RADIATION PROTECTION
Home › Uncategorized › Cell Phones Radiaton & Koobi “Can Cause” Brain Cancer? Part 1
Cell Phones Radiaton & Koobi “Can Cause” Brain Cancer? Part 1
Posted on September 8, 2011 by liza sabado	— No Comments ↓
http://www.emfnews.org/headset.html
Lifebluetube Headset
Cell Phone Radiation Protection
Mobile Phone Radiation Protection
Trifield Electromagnetic Field Meter
An announcement last month from the International Agency for Research on Cancer of the World Health Organization (WHO/IARC) that they have classified radio frequency (RF) electromagnetic fields, such as those from mobile/cell phones, as possibly cancer-causing in humans has garnered apprehension particularly in Africa where the use of cell phones is the highest in the world.
Despite modern era of information overdose and associated abuse, there are some organizations that, in the minds of public health professionals in particular and the general public in general, have an aura of authenticity. The World Health Organization (WHO) is one such organization. When the WHO comes up with a report that associates cancer to mobile phone usage, there is bound to be worldwide excitement. And for good reason. There is an estimated five billion mobile phone connections around the world. If mobile phones do indeed cause cancer, it is something to be actually worried about.
But what did the IARC actually say and what does it mean?
It was reported that 31 scientists from 14 countries met in Lyon, France, to pore over hundreds of previous scientific articles to assess the potential carcinogenic hazards from exposure to radiofrequency electromagnetic fields. The IARC Monograph Working Group, as the researchers are called, discussed and evaluated the available literature and concluded that the data was inadequate to draw conclusions for cancers other than glioma, a rare malignant type of brain cancer that strikes three to five people per 100,000 in population.
For gliomas, however, the scientists found some evidence, though limited of carcinogenicity, meaning that a positive association between mobile phone use and cancer had been found, but that chance and bias could not be ruled out for this connection. The scientists did not specify the level of risk, but one previous study of mobile phone use showed a 40% increased risk for gliomas in the highest category of heavy mobile phone users (which was classified as 30 minutes per day of use over a 10-year period). The scientists found these results to be compelling enough to give radiofrequency electromagnetic fields a 2B classification as an agent that might cause cancer.
To better understand the issue let’s take a look at the classification. The IARC Monographs scale is as follows: Group 1: Carcinogenic to humans; Group 2A: Probably carcinogenic to humans; Group 2B: Possibly carcinogenic to humans; Group 3: Not classifiable as to its carcinogenicity to humans; Group 4: Probably not carcinogenic to humans.
The radiofrequency electromagnetic radiation falls into category 2B, the same category as such innocuous potential cancer-causing agents such as coffee, talcum powder, naphthalene, dry cleaning and pickled vegetables. But also in the 2B category are more threatening agents such as DDT and gasoline (diesel, petrol and probably Kerosene), and its fumes.
Pickling causes cancer? Pickling, also known as brining or corning is the process of preserving food by fermentation in brine (a solution of salt in water) to produce lactic acid or marinating, and storing it in an acid solution, usually vinegar (acetic acid). The resulting food is called a pickle. This procedure gives the food a salty or sour taste.
Fellow, Ghanaians and Africans, did you read the above paragraph well and do you now get what I am driving at? Pickling is the method we use to prepare Koobi, Kako, one-man thousand, Osamini, Momone, Kosohwe, etc., etc. Secondly, in my village, everybody, from the new born child to grandmothers bathed themselves in talcum powder after every bath, which occurs every day. Maame Nkra (the Accra lady) who supplied my mother with these items was a favorite visitor to our house.
Your Lord/Ladyships of Africa, before, you start insulting me with all those invectives about Koobi and cancer or before you start saying “Oh dear, something else to worry about”, please I want to assure you that you are not alone. I am with you. When I saw the items listed in group 2B, I called my family in Otwereso and Ayirebi to ask them to go for check up. My uncle pleaded with me to go to the hospital to see a Psychiatric to check my head or to come home. It looks like I have been away for too long, it is affected my brains.
I am not done yet. Of the 32 things beginning with the letter C including cell phones that are possibly carcinogenic to humans, include coffee, carpentry, coconut oil in shampoo and carrageen, a thickener found in instant-pudding mixes. In Ghana, pudding includes, rice water, banku, Ga kome, kooko, kose, cake, akple’, achaka, and kpekple’. Hey, I am just the messenger so save your insult for the scientists. But you’ll be happy to know that living in Chorkor, or Chiana Paga are not on the list, yet. I did not also find Courts and Choo lorry on the list. The Ghanaian courts are not on the list probably because they are only carcinogen to the NDC government. I leave this part to the experts in food.
So is mobile phone use and all these other items innocuous or threatening? The word in the classification “possibly” can go either way. It is like the classic example of the half-filled glass; you see what you want to see. The 2B category is used when there is limited (or inadequate) evidence of carcinogenicity in humans and sufficient (or less than sufficient) evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals. This essentially means that while it can be concluded that such items can cause cancer in animals used to conduct the experiments, nothing can be conclusively said about the effect on humans.
“Given the potential consequences for public health of this classification and findings, it is important that additional research be conducted into the long-term, heavy use of mobile phones,” says IARC director Christopher Wild. “Pending the availability of such information, it is important to take pragmatic measures to reduce exposure such as hands-free devices or texting.” Translation: we don’t know if mobile phone use causes cancer, but there’s certainly a compelling case to go hands-free when possible.
What is in this for Africa? Many more people in Africa use mobile phones than in any part of the world, a new report by the International Telecommunications Union has said. By the end of 2008, Africa had 246 million mobile subscriptions and over the past five years the continent’s mobile phone use has increased at an annual rate of 65 percent – twice the global average, whiles mobile penetration has risen from just five percent in 2003 to well over 30 percent.
Cell phones have become the only practical way to connect to friends, family, and business associates. On a continent where bad roads, seasonal flooding that washes away bridges, poor transportation systems, rolling blackouts, undrinkable water, and fetid mounds of refuse remain the stuff of everyday existence, wireless telecommunications services stand out as a rare, perhaps unique, technological success story. Tens of millions of ordinary Africans carry cell phones today, something not even the richest of them could have possessed barely a decade ago. And every month, millions more dial in to the 21st century, with profound implications for African economies and societies. Mbarika and Mbarika quote the United Nations as reporting that sub-Saharan Africa – with 34 of the 50 poorest countries on Earth is the world’s fastest-growing wireless market.
Africa is going wireless for a very simple reason: The United Nation reports that in most sub-Saharan countries not even 1 percent of the population have landline-connected telephones. That compares with more than 10 lines per 100 people in Latin America and more than 64 per 100 in the United States. Even Mongolians have twice as many land lines per person than us.
Indeed, Tokyo and New York City each have more fixed-line telephones than the whole of sub-Saharan Africa. These numbers are even more daunting when you consider that fixed lines tend to be concentrated in capital cities, leaving rural communities totally bereft. Also, fixed lines are difficult to operate and can take years to install even if thieves will not cut the copper wires and tend them to rings, chains and other ornaments, whiles you only need to buy a handset and prepaid cell phone calling card to get a wireless line.
Korea (North), Pyongyang,
Equatorial Guinea, Malabo
Turkey, Ankara,
San Diego, California
Cambridge, Massachusetts
Gold Coast, Queensland
Estonia, Tallin,
Nigeria, Abuja
Serbia, Belgrade
Al Khari, United Arab Emirates, Al Khari, UAE
Click on any of the pictures below
to learn more
Anti-Radiation Air-tube Headset
Q-Link Products
EMF Harmonization Products
Tagged with airtube headsets, bluetube headsets, Cell phone cancer, Cell phone danger, Cell Phone Dangers, Cell Phone exposure, cell phone radiation, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone tower radiation, cell phone towers, cell phones, Cell Phones Safety, Cell Tower Danger, Cell-Phones Health Risks, Cellphone Danger, Cellphone Protection, Cordless Cancer Risk, Cordless Phones, Danger, earth calm home radiation protection, earthcalm radiation protection, emf, EMF Exposure, EMF fields, EMF hazards, emf protection, EMF Protection Devices, emf radiation, EMF safety, EMF Services, envi aitube, envi headsets, handfree headsets, home radiation protection house radiation protection, Ifit, life bluetube life blue tube, lifebluetube headsets, Microwave frequencies, Microwave radiation, Microwaves, Mobile Phone Health, Mobile Phone Masts, mobile phone radiation, Mobile phone towers, Mobile Phones, Mobile telephone radiation, radiation cancer, Radiation Danger, Radiation Exposure, radiation free headsets, radiation protection, Radiofrequency, Radiofrequency waves, RF energy, RF Exposure, RF Radiation, smart safe headsets, wifi, wireless, Wireless devices, Wireless Devices Radio Frequency Fields, Wireless frequencies, wireless radiation
Post navigation
← Who: Mobile Phone Radiation On Cancer Risk Could Not Be Ignored
Cell Phone Radiation Could Affect Fertility →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Pages
ACOUSTIC NEUROMAS
BIOPRO CELL CHIP HOME HARMONIZER
BIOPRO CELL CHIP PREOTECTION
CANCER PROTECTION
CELL PHONE HAZARDS
CELL PHONE RADIATION
CELL PHONES PROTECTION
CELL TOWER DANGERS
CELL TOWER HEALTH
CELL TOWER PROTECTION
CELL TOWER SAFETY
ELECTRICAL HYPERSENSITIVITY
ELECTRICAL SENSITIVITIES
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION PROTECTION
EMF PROTECTION DEVICES
HEALTH RISKS
HYPERSENSITIVITY SYMPTOMS
Q LINK PENDANT
Q-LINK BRACELET GOLF
Q-LINK PENDANT AND CELL PHONE RADIATION PROTECTION
Q-LINKS PENDANT PROTECTION
QLINK PENDANT
QLINK PENDANT EMF PROTECTION
QLINK PENDANT REVIEWS
WIFI RADIATION PROTECTION
Recent Posts
Fukishima Plutonium Contamination Into Pacific is Greatest Threat of All
Explosion and Blaze at the US Nuclear Plant Protected Area in Arkansas
Unknown Toxic Algae Happening on California Coast Killing Squids and Other Animals
Cell Phone Radiation Damages Sperm, Studies Show
Should Pregnant Women Ditch SSRIs, Microwaves and Cellphones?
Blogroll
Cell Phone Radiation Ebook
EMF Facts
Hyperbaric Chambers and Heavy Metal Detox Products
Internet Marketing / Web Design / Intenet Video
Microwave News
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Dec
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Archives
December 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
Tags
air-tube headset are cordless phones dangerous dangers bluetooth emf emissions blue tooth radiation bluetube headset Cell-Phones Health Risks cell phone cell phone air-tube headset cell phone antenna Cell phone cancer Cell phone danger Cell Phone Dangers cell phone protection cell phone radiation Cell Phone Radiation Danger cell phone radiation protection cell phones cell phone tower radiation cell phone towers cell sites cell tower cell tower lease cell tower leases cell tower location cell tower locations cell tower locator cell tower radiation cell towers cellular phones cellular towers emf EMF Exposure emf protection EMF Protection Devices emf radiation Microwave radiation Microwaves mobile phone mobile phone radiation radiation cancer radiation protection radiation safe airtube headset telecommunication towers Wireless devices wireless radiation
© 2019 Cell Phone Radiation News
Responsive II powered by WordPress
↑