How to Lose Belly Fat Fast - Quick Ways to Reduce Tummy Fat
Home » How to Lose Belly Fat Naturally? Effective Home Remedies to Lose Belly Fat
How to Lose Belly Fat Naturally? Effective Home Remedies to Lose Belly Fat
February 23, 2017 By vijay Leave a Comment
Topic Highlights
1 How to Reduce Belly Fat? Easy Ways to Lose Belly Fat in Home
1.1 Fastest Way to Reduce Belly Fat – Lemon Drink
1.1.1 Burn Belly Fat Fast with Lemon Water
1.2 Does Green Tea Helps to Lose Belly Fat
1.2.1 Reduce Tummy Fat with Green Tea
1.3 Quick Home Remedies to Lose Belly Fat – Cranberry Juice
1.3.1 How to lose weight on your stomach fast?
1.4 Ginger Tea to Get Rid of Belly Fat
1.4.1 Reduce Belly Fat by Drinking Ginger Tea
1.5 Cinnamon Tea to Make Your Belly Flat
1.5.1 Fastest ways to lose belly fat using cinnamon
1.5.2 Get rid of stomach fat by drinking cinnamon tea
1.6 List of Foods that Helps Lose Belly Fat
1.7 Best Exercises to Lose Belly Fat for Both Men and Women
Fastest Ways to Lose Belly Fat at Home: Most teens have one dream of getting a flat belly and perfect curves. But due to their busy schedules, they can’t spend time for exercising. Don’t worry, you can get a flat tummy by following some simple natural ways at home. Some of the causes of belly fat are weak metabolism, unhealthy food, overeating, hormonal changes, etc. There are many home remedies that help you lose abdominal fat quickly. To know them, just read on…
How to Reduce Belly Fat? Easy Ways to Lose Belly Fat in Home
Try these home remedies regularly to get a flat belly by reducing fat
Fastest Way to Reduce Belly Fat – Lemon Drink
A stressed liver cannot burn fat efficiently. Hence, you need to detoxify your liver for metabolizing fat which deposited around the waistline. Lemon water is the best drink to increase enzymes that help for detoxifying so that the liver can carry its basic functions. Hence, drink lemon water daily for losing belly fat fast.
Burn Belly Fat Fast with Lemon Water
From a fresh lemon, extract the juice.
Mix it with warm water and drink this solution on an empty stomach.
Remember, not to eat or drink for at least 30 minutes after having this juice.
Drink this daily to lose lower belly fat.
[Read more: Easiest home remedies for stomach bloating]
Does Green Tea Helps to Lose Belly Fat
How to reduce stomach fat? According to scientific studies, drinking 4 cups of green tea daily can help to lose more than 6 pounds of fat within 8 weeks of time. Green tea contains catechin known as epigallocatechin – 3 – gallate or EGCG which helps to boost your metabolism.
Reduce Tummy Fat with Green Tea
Take green tea leaves or tea bag and mint or basil leaves.
Add both of them to a cup of boiling water.
Cover and steep for 5 to 10 minutes.
Then, strain the tea and include lemon juice and honey for taste.
Consume this solution 3 or 4 times in a day for belly fat reduction.
The best time for drinking green tea is after having meals.
Quick Home Remedies to Lose Belly Fat – Cranberry Juice
Cranberry juice is the best stomach fat burner. The organic acids present in this juice are malic acid, quinic acid, and citric acid which act as digestive enzymes. Also, they will act as emulsifying agents on your tummy fat.
How to lose weight on your stomach fast?
Mix one cup of cranberry juice with 7 cups of water.
Drink the first cup of this juice in the morning and later continue throughout the day.
Another option, make cran water by mixing 2 tbsps of cranberry juice and 7 Oz of water.
Following this home remedy for several days for help for fast belly fat loss.
[Get the best home remedies for stomach upset]
Ginger Tea to Get Rid of Belly Fat
The traditional home remedy which is a natural digestive aid is nothing but Ginger. Also, it is a thermogenic agent which can increase body temperature and helps to burn stomach fat more effectively. Your tummy fat may be due to the causes such as lack of exercise, overeating, age-related reduction of hormone, stress. Ginger can solve all these belly fat causes. Besides, it can also suppress production of cortisol, the steroid hormone essential for mobilization and energy regulation. Hence, have ginger tea to aid natural stomach weight loss.
Reduce Belly Fat by Drinking Ginger Tea
For reducing abdominal fat, boil 4 cups of water for some time and then add 1 or 2-inch fresh ginger root.
Heat on a low flame for about 5 to 10 minutes.
After, remove the flame and add one fresh lemon juice and 1 tbsp of honey.
Drink the first cup in the morning and again one or two in a day.
Since ginger tea is best belly fat burner, have this regularly for several weeks.
Cinnamon Tea to Make Your Belly Flat
How to lose stubborn belly fat quickly? Cinnamon, the thermogenic compound can produce heat through the metabolic stimulation. It not only reduce stomach fat but also decreases the overall body fat. Hence, add a teaspoon of cinnamon powder to your daily diet for increasing the metabolism. This is the best way to lose lower belly fat for women.
Fastest ways to lose belly fat using cinnamon
Include a tbsp of cinnamon powder to drinks such as milk, coffee, tea and stir well.
Add some ground cinnamon on the top of toast or muffins.
Sprinkle the powder of cinnamon on salads, sauces, and dips.
You can also drink cinnamon tea for losing belly fat.
Get rid of stomach fat by drinking cinnamon tea
Take either cinnamon stick or 1 to 2 tsp of cinnamon powder.
Add this to a cup of boiling water.
Steep for few minutes and then include a tea bag in it.
After 5 minutes, take away the tea bag.
Strain the tea and mix honey for adding taste.
Drink this tea daily once to reduce tummy fat.
Note: Do not use cinnamon bark oil because it is dangerous.
[Know how to cure acidity naturally]
List of Foods that Helps Lose Belly Fat
A Strict diet plan is necessary for losing belly fat. Hence, you must know the foods to eat and avoid for belly fat reduction. Here are the best diet foods that make you lose lower belly fat.
Celery is high in fiber content and low in calories which help for quick weight loss. Hence, add celery to your recipes.
Since Watermelon has 91% of water, it acts as a natural diuretic that helps to detox your body. So, eat one cup of watermelon slices every day for a healthy belly fat loss.
Tomatoes have a compound called 9 – oxo – ODA which helps to reduce lipids in blood and also controls gaining fat on the stomach.
Cut down the sugar levels from your diet to avoid belly fat. Replace sugar with complex carbohydrates.
Foods to avoid when losing belly fat include pizzas, french fries, burgers, and other junk foods which are not good for health.
Skipping your meals also cause a fat gain on the stomach. So, don’t skip eating meals.
Consume omega-3 fat foods like tuna, salmon which can help for reducing stomach weight.
Keep a food dairy by including belly fat reduction foods and exercises and follow them regularly.
Best Exercises to Lose Belly Fat for Both Men and Women
Although you follow all these natural remedies for losing belly fat, strict diet plan, lifestyle habits, exercises are compulsory. Without them, you can’t lose tummy fat fastly.
Do exercises which include all muscles with all body workouts.
Exercises such as walking, running, cycling, aerobics help for a quick reduction of abdominal fat.
Doing push ups and jumping jacks every day in the morning will boost your metabolism for the day.
Skipping or jumping is also the best and easy exercise for losing belly fat.
Take regular strength training along with cardiovascular exercises to strengthen the muscles.
So, these are the home remedies for losing belly fat. It takes some days to lose stomach fat. Hence be patient and follow them regularly to get a flat belly.
Filed Under: Uncategorized
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
About Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Disclaimer:The content available on this website is just for informational purpose and we took reference from the best sources. Readers are strictly advised to consult a health care provider or a doctor before trying these remedies.