DNA | Electromagnetic Frequencies
Electromagnetic Frequencies
This blog is about electromagnetic frequencies, uses, dangers, and how to stay healthy.
Home
About
jump to navigation
Connection between Cell Phones and Cancer? December 16, 2014
Posted by healthyself in Acoustic Neuroma, ADHD, Autism, Brain Cancer, Brain Tumors, Central Nervous System, Chromosomal damage, Depression, DNA, DNA breakage, DNA Damage, Double Strand DNA breakage, Eyes, Glioma, Heart Attacks, Leukemia, Melanoma, Parotid Gland, Pituitary Gland, Tinnitus, Tumors.
2 comments
Is there a connection between cell phones and cancer? Here are 44 reasons to believe that cell phones can cause cancer.
Cell phones emit microwave radio-frequency radiation. Fact.
This radiation has the ability to penetrate our bodies. Fact.
Our governments do virtually nothing to protect us from these dangers. Fact.
And yet there is strong evidence and multiple peer reviewed studies that indicate that cell phones cause cancer and other diseases.
Take a look for yourself at these facts.
But first let’s just consider what cancer is.
Cancer And DNA
The National Cancer Institute says,
“Cancer is a term used for diseases in which abnormal cells divide without control and are able to invade other tissues … all cancers begin in cells … cells grow and divide in a controlled way to produce more cells as they are needed to keep the body healthy. When cells become old or damaged, they die and are replaced with new cells. However, sometimes this orderly process goes wrong. The genetic material (DNA) of a cell can become damaged or changed, producing mutations that affect normal cell growth and division. When this happens, cells do not die when they should and new cells form when the body does not need them.”
So cancer typically involves abnormal cell division and DNA damage and in some cases cells may form a mass of tissue called a tumor.
Types Of Brain Tumor
In the studies done to date cell phone radiation exposures are principally linked to two types of brain tumor: gliomas and acoustic neuromas.
Gliomas, a type of tumor that starts in the brain or spine are typically malignant. Gliomas are particularly deadly. Most people survive only 1 to 3 years after diagnosis.
Acoustic neuromas, though non-malignant (low-grade cancer), are in many cases life threatening given that they are an intracranial tumor.
The 44 Reasons
1. Cellular Damage: Telecoms giant T-Mobile in Germany commissioned an independent study to review all relevant research on the health risks from wireless telecommunications. It was concluded that,
“On the cellular level, a multitude of studies found the type of damage from high frequency electromagnetic fields which is important for cancer initiation and cancer promotion.”
Brain Tumors And Brain Cancers
2. Significantly Increased Risk of Glioma: Gliomas are becoming increasingly common. The $25 million Interphone Study found that:
“… regular use of a cell phone by adults can significantly increase the risk of gliomas by 40% with 1640 hours or more of use (this is about one half hour per day over ten years).”
Source: Table 2 INTERPHONE Study Group. Brain tumour risk in relation to mobile telephone use: results of the INTERPHONE international case-control study. Int J Epidemiol (2010); 39(3):675-694.
3. Tumor Risk on Cell Phone Side of Head: Again from the Interphone Study – currently the big daddy of cell phone radiation studies it being the largest and longest study on the link between cell phones and brain tumors – it also found, “tumors were more likely to occur on the side of the head most used for calling.”
4. Harmful Association Between Cell Phone Radiation and Tumors: A review of 23 epidemiological studies by 7 scientists on the link between cell phones and cancer concluded, “harmful association.” One of the reports authors commenting the study results said, “although as a whole the data varied, among the 10 higher quality studies, we found a harmful association between phone use and tumor risk. The lower quality studies, which failed to meet scientific best practices, were primarily industry funded.”
5. Increased Risk For Glioma and Acoustic Neuroma: the studies performed by the Hardell Research Group are widely regarded as being amongst the best. This recent study finds, “A consistent pattern of increased risk for glioma and acoustic neuroma associated with use of wireless phones.” These findings are consistent with their earlier studies.
6. Temporal Lobe & Glioma Risk: A recent French study found evidence of an increased risk of glioma and temporal lobe tumors. The study found that, “risks were higher for gliomas, temporal tumours, occupational and urban mobile phone use.” According to EMF watchdog Powerwatch this is an important paper, “that confirms existing studies and which should help move the IARC RF evaluation strongly towards a Group 2A – ‘probable human carcinogen’.”
7. Increased Risk of Acoustic Neuroma in Long-Term Users of Cell Phones: A recent study on 790,000 middle aged women in the UK found that, “women who used cell phones for ten or more years were two-and- a-half times more likely to develop an acoustic neuroma. Their risk of acoustic neuroma increased with the number of years they used cell phones.”
8. Increased Risk of Acoustic Neuroma: Research conducted by Lonn suggests, “an increased risk of acoustic neuroma associated with mobile phone use of at least 10 years’ duration.”
9. Brain Tumor Risk is Higher on ‘Cell Phone’ Side of Head: A research paper that reviewed 11 studies found, “a link between prolonged cell phone usage and the development of an ipsilateral [same side of head as cell phone] brain tumor.”
10. Meningioma: This Swedish study looked at adult brain tumor cases diagnosed over a two year period. Although the study concluded that, “no conclusive evidence of an association between use of mobile and cordless phones and meningioma was found.” The studies authors did say, “an indication of increased risk was seen in the group with highest cumulative use.”
11. Malignant Brain Tumors: Recent work by Hardell looked at long-term use of mobile and cordless phones. In conclusion it was found that, “this study confirmed previous results of an association between mobile and cordless phone use and malignant brain tumors. These findings provide support for the hypothesis that RF-EMFs play a role both in the initiation and promotion stages of carcinogenesis.”
Image: Hardell Research Group
Other Cancers And Tumors
12. Cancer of the Pituitary Gland: The pituitary gland, considered by many to be the “master gland” of the body, is a pea sized organ located in the middle of the base of the brain that produces hormones that play a major role in regulating vital body functions and general well-being. This study (already referenced above) also found that,
“the risk of cancer of the pituitary gland more was more than twice as high among women who used a cell phone for less than five years as compared to never users.”
13. Thyroid Cancer: The thyroid gland is situated in the neck. Using a cell phone against your ear exposes your thyroid to cell phone radiation. A recent Israeli study observing that, “the incidence of thyroid cancer has been on the rise in Israel for more than a decade which matches the rise in the use of cellphones” collected human thyroid cells from healthy patients and subjected them to radiation. The study found, “evidence of changes in thyroid cells in response to electromagnetic radiation.”
14. Melanoma Risk: Melanoma is a cancer that starts in a certain type of skin cell. A Swedish study found “a very clear association between increasing use of mobile phones and increasing rates of head melanoma in Nordic countries.”
Image: Örjan Hallberg
15. Stem Cell Cancer: In a controversial US study on 29 cases of neuroepithelial tumors, cell phone users accounted for 11 of them. These initial results indicated a near tripling in the risk of neuroepithelial tumors through cell phone use. The published results were revised to reflect a doubling of risk and then reported as not “statistically significant.”
16. Oral Cancer: An Israeli study on 460 cases of parotid gland tumors found, “based on the largest number of benign PGT patients reported to date, our results suggest an association between cellular phone use and PGTs [parotid gland tumors].” The parotid is the salivary gland near the cheek where many users hold their cell phone.
17. Parotid Malignant Tumors: Another Israeli study analyzed deaths as recorded on the National Cancer Registry over a 36 year period found, “the total number of parotid gland cancers in Israel increased 4-fold from 1970 to 2006 , whereas other major salivary gland cancers remained stable.”
Image: Environmental Health Trust
18. Leukemia: A comprehensive review of over a dozen studies including studies on exposures from cell tower radiation, TV and Radio broadcast towers concluded, “cancer, especially brain tumor and leukemia, but all other cancers also.”
19. Lymph Node Cancer: In an Australian study one hundred mice were exposed to RF radiation for two 30-minute periods per day for up to 18 months. The authors called the increased incidence of lymphoma “highly significant.” They added that “it is very unlikely that the faster onset of cancer was due to chance.”
20. Multifocal Breast Cancer: American researchers studied four young women with breast cancer. They found that, “all patients regularly carried their smartphones directly against their breasts in their brassieres for up to 10 hours a day, for several years, and developed tumors in areas of their breasts immediately underlying the phones.”
21. Eye Cancer: A German Study has established a link between uveal melanoma and cell phone radiation and similar exposures. The study “found an elevated risk for exposure to radiofrequency-transmitting devices.” Another study found ocular symptoms and sensations in long term users of mobile phones.
22. Diverse Cancerous Tumors: A Brazilian Study established a direct link between various cancer deaths such as tumors in the prostate, breast, lung, kidneys and liver in Brazil’s third largest city, and cell phone tower radiation exposures. The study found that, “more than 81 percent of people who die in Belo Horizonte by specific types of cancer live less than 500 meters away from the 300 identified cell phone antennas in the city”.
Source. This same study also lists more than a dozen other research papers that have found a link between different cancers and cell phone/cell tower radiation exposures.
Cell Phone Subscriptions And Brain Tumors
23. Cell Phone Subscription Link to Brain Tumors: A U.S. study analyzed the number of cell phone subscriptions and brain tumors in nineteen US states, they concluded,
“the very linear relationship between cell phone usage and brain tumor incidence is disturbing and certainly needs further epidemiological evaluation.”
24. Brain Cancer Incidence Increases Over Time (U.S): Another U.S. study of brain cancer incidence trends in relation to cell phone use in the United States found, “there was a statistically significant increasing trend between 1992 and 2006 among females but not among males. The recent trend in 20–29-year-old women was driven by a rising incidence of frontal lobe cancers.”
25. Brain Cancer Incidence Increases Over Time (Europe): Studies carried out in Norway, Finland and the U.K. have identified a similar trend of an increase in the incidence of brain cancer over time. In the UK study the incidence of malignant brain tumors close to where you hold your phone was highlighted.
Source: Mobile Phone Use and Cancer Risk – Research on a Group 2B Carcinogen. Joel M. Moskowitz Ph.D.
Other Effects On the Brain
26. Blood-Brain Barrier (BBB) Permeability: The BBB is a membrane which prevents toxic materials from the blood from entering the brain. It was first discovered in 1975 that RF radiation causes the BBB to leak, since then at least a dozen laboratories around the world have corroborated this effect. There’s no consensus on the link between BBB damage and cancer but some studies elude to this.
27. Brain Cell Loss: A Turkish study on adult female rats that were exposed to a 900 MHz electromagnetic field found that, “EMF exposure caused a significant decrease of the … cell number … additionally, cell loss can be seen.” In their conclusions the researchers drew parallels between these exposures and teenagers’ brains that are exposed to cell phone radiation.
28. Brain Activity: Researchers in China exposed 18 participants to RF radiation (LTE) for 30 minutes which was well within international (ICNIRP) cell phone legal limits. They concluded that, “30min LTE RF-EMF exposure modulated the spontaneous low frequency fluctuations in some brain regions.”
29. Brain Blood Flow Affected: This Finnish brain imaging study found that “that the EMF emitted by a commercial mobile phone affects rCBF [regional cerebral blood flow] in humans.” This suggests that cell phone radiation affects neuronal activity.
30. Texting Affects Memory: An Australian study on young adolescents found “students who reported making or receiving more voice or SMS calls per week, and in particular more of both, demonstrated shorter response times on learning tasks, but less accurate working memory.”
DNA Damage
One way cancer and other diseases are believed to develop is when the DNA (genetic information) in a cell becomes damaged. This damage mutates the DNA. There are many studies linking cell phone radiation exposures to different types of DNA damage.
31. Single and Double-Strand DNA Breaks: In pioneering work a University of Washington team found DNA single strand breaks from RF radiation exposures on rats in an initial study. A subsequent study found single and double-strand DNA breaks.
32. Various Genetic Effects: An Austrian study analyzed the results of 101 different published articles on the effects of radio frequency EMFs on DNA. The study concluded that, “there is ample evidence that RF-EMF can alter the genetic material of exposed cells.”
33. Increased Rates of Micronuclei: Micronuclei proliferation indicates a type of DNA damage strongly associated with cancer. A Brazilian study found that, “electromagnetic field irradiation [low level cell phone type exposures] during pregnancy leads to an increase in erythrocytes micronuclei incidence in rat offspring.” Several studies have found increased rates of micronuclei in the body following exposures to RF radiation.
34. Heat Shock Proteins (HSPs) Production Decreased: A U.S. study exposed chick embryo’s to RF radiation. They concluded that, “this EMF-induced decrease in HSP70 levels and resulting decline in cytoprotection suggests a mechanism by which daily exposure (such as might be experienced by mobile phone users) could enhance the probability of cancer and other diseases.”
35. Oxidative DNA Damage: The Guler study in Turkey exposed female and male infant rabbits to 1800 MHz radio frequency radiation and found, “GSM-like RF radiation may induce biochemical changes by increasing free radical attacks to structural biomolecules.” Free radical damage is associated with the development of cancer.
36. DNA Strand Breaks: This Austrian study exposed human and rat cells to mobile phone radiation and found, “DNA single- and double-strand breaks.”
37. Changes in Gene Expression: The Belyaev study found that, exposing the “rat brain to 915 MHz GSM microwaves induces changes in gene expression.” Other studies suggest that, “subtle changes of gene expression associated with [disease].”
38. Genotoxic Effects: The Schwarz study exposed human cells to 1,950 MHz UMTS. It concluded that “UMTS exposure may cause genetic alterations in some but not in all human cells in vitro.”
39. Neurotransmitters Impacted: This Bavarian study followed 60 people over one and a half years following the installation of a new cell phone base station in their village. The study concluded that, “the effects showed a dose-response relationship,” that it had “occurred well below current limits for technical RF radiation exposures” and that these effects have “great relevance for health and [are] well known to damage human health in the long run.” In other words the more people were exposed to cell phone type radiation the bigger the impact on their health.
40. Chromosome Damage: A Belgian study reviewed 16 expert gene monitoring studies from around the world. In 13 of the 16 independent studies performed worldwide it was found that, “RF-exposed individuals have increased frequencies of genetic damage (e.g., chromosomal aberrations).”
41. Central Nervous System: US based researcher Dr. Henry Lai comments that there are several studies which show that repeated RF exposure at relatively low power caused morphological changes in the central nervous system, “changes in morphology, especially cell death, could have an important implication on health. Injury-induced cell proliferation has been hypothesized as a cause of cancer.”
Reading Between The Lines
The studies don’t tell all of the story. Here are some other things you need to know.
42. Latency Period Before Diagnosis: To put this in the words of researcher Dr. Martin Blank “cancers do not form overnight.” In almost all cases, cancerous tumors take many years to form and metastasize.” According to Dr. Blank’s statements, then cancers are overpowered. This would suggest that we might be sitting on a cell phone radiation cancer time bomb.
43. Cell Phone Radiation Cancer Time Bomb: To give a sense to what this latency period could mean in terms of the incidence of brain tumors in the years to come, researcher Lloyd Morgan produced this alarming graphic showing that brain tumor cases could reach epidemic proportions within the next decade:
44. Flawed Research: Not all of the research points to a link between cell phone radiation and cancer. But then that’s hardly surprising given the lengths some researchers go to, to skew the results. This research paper also lays bare the phenomenon of study bias. This can take many different shapes and forms; insufficient latency time, incorrect definition of “regular” cell phone user, cell phones radiating higher power levels in rural areas not investigated, exposure to other transmitting sources not considered, exclusion of brain tumor cases due to death or illness, etc.
The Tip Of The Iceberg
There is lot of interest surrounding the link between cell phone radiation and cancer. But cancer is only the tip of the iceberg.
Microwave radio-frequency radiation exposures of the type emitted by cell phones are also linked to many other diseases and potentially life threatening illnesses, including:
sperm damage & male infertility
miscarriages
vaginal discharge
vascular system disease
tinnitus
childhood cancer
sleep problems
depression
irritability
memory loss
concentration difficulties
headaches
dizziness and fatigue
suicidal tendencies
arrhythmia
heart attacks
bone marrow interference
altered calcium level in cells
ADHD
reduction in night-time melatonin
suppression of the immune system
arthritis
rheumatism
skin symptoms
lymphatic diseases
autism
hearing problems
See more at here
http://www.electricsense.com/8822/cell-phones-cause-cancer-fact/
Advertisements
Did you know…………… January 11, 2008
Posted by healthyself in Absorption, Accelerated Aging, Addiction, Adolescents, Aging, airports, Alzheimer's, Anger, angst, Antioxidants, Anxiety, arteriosclerosis, Attention Deficit, Autism / Asperger's, Biofield, Biological Activity, Biological Dentistry, Birth Defects, Birth Rate, Blogroll, Blood Brain Barrier, Bluetooth, Brain Cancer, Brain Damage, Brain Tumors, Brainwave Interference, Breast Cancer, Bronchial Spasms, Buzzing, Canaries, Cancer, Cancer Protection, Captive Animals, Cell changes, Cell death, Cell Masts, cell membrane, Cell phone industry, Cell Phone Pulses, Cell phone safety, Cell phone towers, Cell Phone Transmissions, Cell Phones, Cellular Damage, Cellular Destruction, cellular functions, Cellular Phone Frequencies, Central Nervous System, Childhood Cancer, Children's health, Chromosomal damage, Chronic Exhaustion, Chronic Fatigue, Chronic Illness, Circulation, Computer Rooms, Consciousness, Control Group, Conversations, Cordless Phones, Cytotoxic Effects, Dangerous, Death Rates, Definitions, Denial of Risk, Dental Fillings, Detoxification, Digestion, Diseases, Disruption of cellular, DNA, DNA breakage, DNA Damage, Dolphins, Double Strand DNA breakage, Ear Tumors, EEG, EHF, Elderly, Electric Field, Electrical Components, Electrical Pulses, Electrical Wiring, Electrochemical Communications, electromagnetic, Electromagnetic Communications, Electromagnetic Field, Electromagnetic Interference, Electromagnetic Radiation, Electromagnetic Signals, Electrophysiology, Electrosensitivity, Electrosmog, ELF, Emergency Medicine, EMF Exposure, EMF Research, EMF Shielding, EMF's, EMF-induced effects, EMR, Endocrine, Endogenous Fields, Entrainment, Entropy, Environment, Epidemiologists, Epidemiology, Extremely Low Frequency, Eye Cancer, Family, Fatigue, Federal Communication Commission, Forgetfulness, Free Radicals, Frequencies, Games and Gaming, Gamma Rays, Generations, genes, genetic damage, GHz, Global Health Disaster, Ground Currents, Grounding Conductors, GSM, Hand Portables, Handheld Units, Handsets, Harmonics, Hazard, headaches, Headsets, Healing, Health, Health and Safety Officer, Health related, Health Risk, Health Risks, Health warnings, Hearing, Heart Attacks, Heart Disease, heat, Heavy Metals, Heightened Risk, HF, Hidden, High Voltage Power Line, Homes, Hormones, Hospitals, HOuseholds, HRD, Human Biological Experiment, Human Populations, Human Resources, Hz, Illness, immune and nervous funtions, Immune system, Immunity, Infant Death Syndrome, Infectious Disease, Inflammation, Infrared, Inherited, Inner Agitation, Insects, Insomnia, Interdisciplinary, International, Intuition, Investigate, Lab Tested, Lack of Concentration, Laptops, Learning, Leukemia, LF, Lifestyle, Lifetime, Light, Long Term Health Effects, Long Term Health Risks, Low Birth Weight, Low Frequencies, Lung Disorders, Lymphoma, Mad Wave Disease, Magnetic Field Exposure, Malignant, masts, Medical Research, Medicine, Melatonin, Memory, Memory Loss, Men's Health, Menstrual Cycle, Metabolic Changes, Metabolism, MHz, microchips, Microwave exposure, Microwave Ovens, Microwave Sickness, microwaves, Migraines, Military, miscarriages, Mitigation, Mitochondria, Mobile Phone Transmissions, mobile telephones, Mold, Moods, Motivation, Motor Activity, nausea, nerves, Nervous System, Neural Electrophysiology, Neurasthenia, neurological, Neurologist, neuroma, neurons, neurosurgeons, Neurotransmitters, Noise, Non-Thermal Levels, Nutrition, Occupation, Ocular, oncogenes, Optical, Oscillate, Ovaries, Pain, Pain Perception, Panic Attacks, Paralysis, Parotid Gland, Patients, Peak Absorption, Penetration, People in Laboratories, Perinatal Depressio, Permanent Brain Damage, Pesticides, Pets, PH, Phone mast, Photosensitive, Pineal Gland, plasma membrane, Poisons, Police Officers, Politics, Pollution, Potential Hydrogen, Power Densities, Power poles, Pregnant Women, Preventive Caution, Prolonged calls, Prolonged Periods, Public areas, Public Hearings, Public Policy, Quantum Physics, Questionnaires, QV, radiation, Radio Field Sickness, Radio Frequency Microwaves, Radio Frequency Radiation, Radio Transmitters, Radio Waves, Rapidly pulsing, Recommendations, Recovery, Research, Research Needed, Resonance, Resonant Frequency, Resources, Right Side of the Head, ringing, ringtones, Risk Factor, Risk of Cancer, Risk of Disease, Safe Levels, Safety, Safety Barrier, SAR, Scalar Wave, School administrators, School Boards, Schools, Seizure, Sensitivity, Serotonin, Shielding, Shields, Sick People, signaling enzymes, signaling systems, Signals, Skull, Sleep, Sleep Disorders, Sleep disturbances, Solutions, Sound, Sparrows, Speakerphones, Species-Limiting, Spine, Staph, Stress, Stroke, Studies, subcellular structures, Subtle Energies, Suffering, Suicide, Susceptibility to Infection, Switched On, Symptoms, T3-T4, Teachers, teeth grinding, Telecommunications, telemetry interference, Terrain, terrorism, Tinnitus, Tissues, Toxic Interactions, toxic particles, toxicity, Toxin, Traffic Pollution, Transmitter Towers, TSH, tumorigenesis, Tumors, Tweenies, University, University Research, Unsafe, VDT, Violence, Well-Being, Whales, Who is Affected?, WiFi, Wireless, Wireless Phones, Wireless Revolution, Wireless Transmitter, Withdrawal, Women's Health, Workplace, X bearing sperm, X-Rays, zinging/crackling.
2 comments
The largest study ever done on wireless safety, which involved over 220 scientists around the world, demonstrated clinical evidence of double strand DNA breakage caused by cell phone radiation…..proved double strand DNA breakage along with altered gene mutation as well. … Swedish neurologist … who has been doing research studies for over 15 years, has verbalized about cell phone radiation, “This is the largest human biological experiment in the history of civilization”.
….a highly respected scientist, found shocking penetration rates of radiation in children as compared to adults. These differences in exposure signify potentially serious health risks for children in the area of cancer, genetic damage, disruptions of cellular, immune and nervous system functions. Scientists say that the thickness of the skull in children makes a difference. It is quite thin compared with adults, and there is more brain fluid – which means that the radio frequencies can travel through the brain more easily .
The BEFORE photo: Only 15 minutes use of a cell phone can create significant heating of tissues in the head. The orange, red and pink colors indicate the areas being heated.
The AFTER photo was taken after 15 minutes of using the same cell phone NOW protected with BIOPRO harmonization technology! Tissue temperatures remained normal! (Blue and green indicate coolness!)
Testing Details: The testing Protocol followed the IACT… guidelines….digital infrared imaging was performed …. The thermal window used was 10 degrees Celcius with each color on the color bar representing 1 degree Celcius. The ambient room temperature remained at 20 degrees Celcius throughout the test. A 15 minute equilibration period was used. The purpose of the testing was to determine if there is a change in infrared emission of the body part near a cellular phone with and without the BIOPRO EMF-Harmonization Chips in place.
Live Blood Analysis
Control blood test of human Blood test of human subject exposed to Blood test of human subject exposed to cell phone
subject not exposed to cell cell phone radiation without any protection radiation with Cell Chip protection
phone radiation
Live Blood Analysis, EEG Brainwave and other tests prove conclusively the new revolutionary Cell Chip with the breakthrough patented Noise-field Technology and ERT effectively neutralizes the harmful effects of radiation from your cell phone.
HOW WILL YOU PROTECT YOUR FAMILY FROM ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION?
There is a simple, cost-effective, scientifically-validated way to make all of our wonderful electronic conveniences safe for you, your family, and your pets.
Unprotected exposure to EMF radiation has been shown to interfere with sleep, make you irritable, effect your concentration while driving, prematurely age and wrinkle your skin, make your children jittery and restless, make you gain weight, make you tired during the day, and decrease focus and attention, among other things.
BioPro Products energize you, keep you looking great, relieve stress, help you sleep better, and make you smile all day long. You will look younger, feel better, and smile more!
Get yours at: http://mybiopro.com/Products.aspx?ID=vibrantenergy
Cell chip Universal chip Bio Life Pendant Home Harmonizer SMART card iWater Energitically charged “ingestibles”
KEEP YOUR VISION
40 studies and proof at http://www.bioenergeticsinstitute.com
Many national and international organizations have recognized the need to define the true risk of low intensity, non-thermal RF/MW radiation exposure, calling for intensive scientific investigation to answer the open questions. These include:
The World Health Organization, noting reports of “cancer, reduced fertility, memory loss, and adverse changes in the behavior and development of children.”
Journal of American Medical Association, “talking 500 minutes per month increases the probability of brain cancer by 140%”
Reproductive Research Center at Cleveland Clinic, “men who carry their mobiles near the groin on a belt or in a pocket could potentially have their sperm count reduced by as much as 30 %”, also citing that less than 20 % of the sperm looked normal under the microscope.
Stewart Inquiry U.K. “Young people under the age of 16 are strongly advised to use mobile phones for essential purposes only and to keep those calls short”
Day in and day out, you may be exposing yourself to more stress than you thought by simply using your Cell Phone, PDA or Bluetooth headset, computers, laptops, and other devices. Electromagnetic radiation (EMR) emitted from these devices has been linked to various stress-induced problems and illnesses and could very well be compromising your health and well being. As a leader in the field of bioenergetics, BIOPRO’s suite of products are the most advanced dual action technology designed to significantly address this newest source of stress in our daily lives.
BIOPRO’s suite of products combine the benefits of two powerful, innovative and scientifically substantiated technologies: BIOPRO’s patented noise field nano-technology MRET (Molecular Resonance Effect Technology), and its proprietary subtle energy innovation ERT (Energy Resonance Technology). Individually and collectively, these cutting-edge technologies offer a groundbreaking and effective way to deal with the cumulative stress associated with living in today’s electronic environment.
Put stress on hold today and enjoy the conveniences of modern life with the one-and-only suite of synergistic products.
HOW DO THEY WORK?
Everyone who uses wireless devices or spends time in areas where other people use wireless technology needs intervention. Radio waves coming from these devices trigger responses that lead to effects ranging from anxiety disorders, learning problems, and electrosensitivity to immunological deficiencies and cancer.
Doctors have told us that the MRET and ERT technologies are a very effective combined intervention because MRET emits a field that prevents biological tissue from reacting. ERT minimizes the symptoms by restoring cellular communication. This combined intervention represents the most efficient means of controlling this radio wave damage available anywhere in the world.
HOW DO YOU KNOW THEY WORK?
This patented, nano-technology has been scientifically tested and proven in laboratories at leading medical centers and universities around the world! Here is a list of some of them:
Cedar-Sinai Medical Center (Los Angeles)
University of Washington (Seattle)
Catholic University of America
University of Western Ontario (Canada)
Columbus University
Aarhus University (Denmark)
Elixir Health Ltd., Singapore
SI Biomedical Instrumentation Co., San Diego
University of Toronto, Canada
Tex Chu Corp. Laboratory, Taipei, Taiwan
Research Institute of Bioenergetics, USA
RF Exposure Laboratory, USA
Elys Scientific Corp., St. Petersburg, Russia
Cell Phone Dangers April 12, 2007
Posted by healthyself in "Cellular" Relay Antennas, "No Fry Zone", 1.9 GHz, 217 Hz, Absorption, Accelerated Aging, Aging, Alzheimer's, Anatomy, Anger, Animal Research, Antennas, arteriosclerosis, Asthma, B-Cell Lymphomas, Biochemical, Bioeffects, Biological Activity, Biological Effects, Biophysicist, Birth Rate, Blogroll, Brain, Brain Cancer, Brain Damage, Brain Tumors, Bronchial Spasms, Calcium, Cancer, Captive Animals, Cardiac Problems, Cell changes, Cell Masts, cell membrane, Cell phone industry, Cell Phone Pulses, Cell phone safety, Cell phone towers, Cell Phone Transmissions, Cell Phones, Cellular Damage, Cellular Destruction, Cellular Phone Frequencies, Children, Children's health, Chromosomal damage, Chronic, Chronic Exhaustion, Chronic Fatigue, Chronic Illness, Church, Churches, Confusion, Consciousness, Cordless Phones, Cytotoxic Effects, Dangerous, Death, Death Rates, Denial of Risk, Diagnostic marker, Digital, Diseases, Dizziness, DNA, DNA Damage, Edginess, Effectiveness, Electrical Pulses, Electrochemical, Electrochemical Communications, Electromagnetic pollution, Electromagnetic Radiation, Electromagnetic Signals, Electromagnetic waves, Electrosensitivity, Electrosmog, ELF, Emergency Medicine, EMF Research, EMF's, Emissions, Employees, EMR, EMR meter, encoded electrical energy, Energy Spikes, Environment, Epidemiologists, Epidemiology, Exposure, Fatigue, Federal Communication Commission, Fiber Optic, Fibre-Optic, Forgetfulness, Frequencies, Generations, genetic damage, Global Health Disaster, Government's role, Harmonics, Hazard, headaches, Headsets, Health and Safety Officer, Health related, Health Risks, Health warnings, Heart, Heart Attacks, Heart Disease, Hidden, high voltage transmission lines, Histamine, Homes, HOuseholds, HRD, Human Populations, Human Resources, Hz, Illness, Immune system, Immunity, Infectious Disease, Inherited, Interdisciplinary, Lab Tested, Learning, lethality, Lethargy, LF, Lifestyle, Lifetime, Long Term Health Effects, Long Term Health Risks, Low Dosage, Low Frequencies, Maximum Output Level, Medical Research, Memory, Memory Loss, Men's Health, Menstrual Cycle, microchips, Microwave exposure, Microwave Ovens, microwaves, Mitigation, Mobile Phone Transmissions, mobile telephones, Molecules, Monitoring Authorities, Moods, MS, National Security, nausea, nerves, Nervous System, neurological, Neurologist, Ovaries, Parenting, Peak Absorption, People in Laboratories, Permanent Brain Damage, Pets, Politics, Pollution, Power Densities, Prolonged calls, Proteins, Public Hearings, Public Policy, Pulsed Radiation, Pulses, Radar, radiation, Radio Frequency Microwaves, Radio Frequency Radiation, Radio Transmitters, Radio Waves, Radios, Rage, Rapidly pulsing, Real Time, Recovery, Relay Towers, Research, Research Needed, Resonance, Resonant Frequency, Right Side of the Head, Risk Factor, Risk of Disease, Rooflines, Safe Levels, Safety, Safety Barrier, SAR, Scary, School administrators, School Boards, Schools, sensations, Serotonin, Shields, Silicon Sensors, Sleep, Sleep Disorders, Sleep disturbances, Species-Limiting, Spectrum Analyzer, Stand-by Mode, Standards, Steeples, Stress, Studies, Subtle Energies, Suicide, Switched On, Symptoms, Testicles, Tissues, Toxic Interactions, toxicity, Toxin, Transmitter Towers, Tumors, Twangs, UHF, Unsafe, Violence, Voting, White Blood Cells, Who is Affected?, Wireless, Wireless Phones, Wireless Revolution, Women's Health, Workplace, zapped.
5 comments
Grave Cell Phone Dangers Revealed
“Though intended for renovations, Chris Anderson would like all visitors to deposit their cellular phones in the cement mixer by his front door. This sounds excessive – until you step into Anderson’s orchard, where the pegged needle of a shrieking electromagnetic radiation (EMR) meter placed beside a connected cellphone still shows significant exposure 100 feet away.”
“Much to the chagrin of this certified EMR-mitigation specialist, every day some 300 million cell phone users are “reaching out and touching someone you love. Yourself, and anyone else within range of the microwaves emitted by your cell phone.”
“Mesmerized by magical gadgets, we have yet to count the costs of miniature radio transmitters that are transforming Marconi’s invention into new possibilities for portable personal pollution. As entire nations reach for pocket communicators, the explosively emergent $40 billion a year cell phone industry is poised to deliver a “Wireless Revolution” which, over the next five years, is expected to double the one-billion people connected by telephone lines over the past century.”
“Silicon sensors are already calling to each other. Soon, countless communicating microchips embedded in everything from bumpers to brooms will be sending streams of encoded electrical energy through glass, steel, concrete, bone and flesh. Exquisitely sensitive to subtle electromagnetic harmonies, human brains and bodies as intricate as galaxies depend on tiny electrical impulses to conduct complex life-processes – including the ability to read, recall and respond to these words. Acting as antennas, our anatomies just as easily tune into spurious signals from radio and microwave transmissions. Blake Levitt, author of Electromagnetic Fields, says that when it comes to cellphones, “a worse frequency could not have been chosen for the human anatomy.”
“As cell phones conquer consumer minds and markets, researcher Carolanne Patton notes that “the brain reaches peak absorption in the UHF bands, right where cellular telecommunications operate.” British military scientists have discovered that cellphone transmissions disrupt the brain sites for memory and learning, causing forgetfulness and sudden confusion.”
….”Instead of just another dangerous distraction, tests conducted by the U.S.Department of Energy found that using a cell phone severely impairs memory and reaction times. “Hands-free” mobile speaker-phones cause even more crashes because they typically emit 10-times more brainwave interference than handheld units.”….In New Zealand, cellphone towers are prohibited on school property because of possible health effects. But Health Canada regulations ignore the hidden hazards of cell-wrenching cellphones, which send pulsed signals through the skull in a process one expert likens to “jackhammers on the brain.” “Safety Code 6″ looks only at microwaves burning skin.” “Basically, Health Canada claims if it can’t cook you, it can’t hurt you,” says Walter McGinnis. “It’s like saying cigarettes aren’t dangerous unless they burn you.”
“One of a handful of licensed electricians who understand electromagnetic fields well enough to eliminate them from household wiring, McGinnis has been testing EMFs and collaborating with fellow testers and researchers for nearly a decade. In Victoria, where he has helped residents defeat six cellphone towers, there was dancing in the streets after Microcell Connexions withdrew its application to erect a microwave transmission tower against the Wishart Elementary School fence in the spring of 1998. Microcell spokesman Colin McCrae points out that emissions from the company’s towers carry about the same energy as a 50-watt lightbulb – well within federal guidelines.”
“This is hardly reassuring, retorts the former president of the Wisehart parents advisory council. Tania Berenuik observes that Health Canada “also told us thalidomide, asbestos and the blood supply were safe.” Carrying similar risks of long-term lethality, and strangely just as legal, cellphone addiction mirrors the prestigious early allure of smoking – as well as an immensely profitable industry’s steadfast denial of risk and responsibility. As poisonous as cigarette smoke and even harder to corral, the cellphone’s “second-hand” microwave and to bystanders – particularly children riding in cars that transmit amplified cellphone signals through their steel structure. Reporting the conclusions of a 12-person British study team, scientist Sir William Stewart told London’s Financial Times that “children may be more vulnerable because of their developing nervous system, the greater absorption of energy in the tissues of the head and a longer lifetime of exposure.”
“Roger Coghill became a long-standing advocate for health warnings to be affixed to cell phones after this biologist found that cellphone transmissions damage the ability of white blood cells to ward off infectious disease by disrupting the immune system’s electromagnetic communications. Dr. Neil Cherry has measured accelerated aging, increased cell death and cancers caused by radio frequency microwaves from cellphones and their relay towers. With the brain’s electro-chemical communications repeatedly zapped by lightning-like cellphone pulses, this Ph.D. biophysicist warns that headaches, fatigue, lethargy, nausea, dizziness, depression, arteriosclerosis and even Alzheimer’s can result from frequent or prolonged calls on cell phones.”
“There is also a higher incidence of cardiac problems,” Cherry comments, “in terms of the timing function in hearts. You get more heart attacks and more heart disease – it has now been shown in many studies.” The biophysicist from Lincoln University in Christ Church, New Zealand has also found that cell phones can murderously modify moods. In brains and bodies seriously derailed by tiny imbalances in trace minerals and hormones, depression, suicide, anger, rage and violence can result when calcium and serotonin levels are disrupted by cellphone transmissions.”
“In 1995, Cell phone sales in North America exceeded the birth rate. Hired by the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association to condone cellphones, public health scientist George Carlo found that rare tumors on the outside of the brain are more than doubled among cell phone callers – particularly on the right side of the head where phones are usually held. Carlo told ABC’s “20/20” that cell phone causes genetic damage that leads to cancer. Warning of “the potential for a global health disaster,” ABC recommended “prudent avoidance” of cellphones after finding that every cellphone they lab-tested exceeded the Federal Communication Commission’s standards for EMF absorption rates. EMF researcher Dave Ashton cautioned 20/20 viewers that because cellphones constantly search for the nearest repeating tower, “long-term damage comes from cell phones in the stand-by mode.” Cell phone “shields” and headsets “cannot adequately address these problems,” Ashton added.”
“Dr. Carlo later told London’s Express newspaper that cellphones cause genetic damage following a dose-response curve. That is, the more a person uses a cell phone, the more cellular destruction and health risks they incur. Cell phone-confused cells can go crazy, Carlo cautioned. Experiments on captive animals show that this cumulative DNA damage is passed on to succeeding generations.”
“Addicted as we are to a culture of convenience, we forget how inconvenient it is to contract cancer. An Adelaide Hospital study confirmed Carlo’s conclusions after finding B-cell lymphomas doubled in mice within 18 months of one-hour daily exposure to power densities experienced by a cellphone user. B-cell lymphomas are implicated in 85% of all cancers.”
“Ready or Not As magazine-size “cellular” relay antennas hidden in church steeples and rooflines keep popping up just about everywhere, more and more communities are declaring their airspace a “No Fry Zone”. But in Canada, where cell phone towers come under federal jurisdiction, municipalities are only “advisers’ to a process in which no permits are required to erect transmitter towers deemed necessary for “national security.” Cellphones do save a lot of lives. FCC Chairman William Kennard reports that every day more than 98,000 people make 911 calls from wireless cell phones.”
“Many more lives are involuntarily imperiled by non-emergency calls. Pat Irwin was working in a Colwood health food store when she noticed a truck unloading metal framework. The next morning, a new cellphone tower was ready to add its emissions to another BC Tel tower already operating down the street. There had been no announcement, no public hearings – just a quiet notification to the municipality that a tower was going up, literally overnight.”
“The intruder radiated for a month when Irwin felt her immunity dropping. She wondered if other changes in her energy and menstrual cycle were “not from the moon or something that I ate.”
“Irwin also seemed more irritable after her central nervous switchboard began receiving round-the-clock cellphone calls. With cellular relay towers in Kansas and Oklahoma being shut down because they interfered with passing aircraft, Irwin sensed how the same transmissions plucked her own electrical circuitry, inflicting a “chronic edginess” that “twangs human nerves.” Sleep disorders, she learned, are common among people exposed to high levels of electromagnetic pollution.”
“After several other women in the same business centre reported similar symptoms, Irwin quit her job. “I saw it as something that was there to stay and I’d be daily exposed to it over a long period of time,” she told Alive. “All this stuff is what we’re playing with on a daily basis, and we don’t know the long-term health effects.”
“Implying recognized hazard, cell phone companies such as B.C.’s FIDO insist that the new digital phones operating at 1/50 the power of older analog models are safer. But there is nothing “safe” about the new 1.9 gigahertz broadcasting frequency. Much like a boxer taking repeated blows to the head, rapidly pulsing cellphones signal permanent brain damage. A study by Dr. Peter Franch found unequivocally that “cells are permanently damaged by cellular phone frequencies.” This cellular damage, Franch noted, is maximized at low dosage – and “inherited unchanged, from generation to generation.”
“Attempting to explain a 25% increase in asthma and a 5% increase in asthma-related death rates throughout rapidly “mobilizing” metropolitan Sydney, Franch found that the production of histamine, which triggers bronchial spasms, is nearly doubled after exposure to mobile phone transmissions. Cellphones also reduce the effectiveness of anti-asthmatic drugs, and retard recovery from illness.”
“Katharina Gustavss, a certified Building Biology consultant with 25 years experience, explains that CDMA’s 217 Hz spikes are very close to the frequencies of human cell membranes. Gustavss accompanied a Microcell technician to the Colwood microwave relay tower Irwin and others had complained about. When he waved a spectrum analyzer, Gustavss checked the display and saw “pretty scary” energy spikes. “What’s that?” she asked the tech. “I’ve never seen that before,” he told her. It turned out that this cellphone tower tester only set his meter to an averaging mode. Switching to “real time” froze the readings at “scary” maximum output levels.”
“How dangerous are cell phones? “The risk is extremely high,” declares Dr. Cherry. “There are 66 epidemiological studies showing that electromagnetic radiation across the spectrum increaseS brain tumors in human populations. Two of those studies are for particular brain tumors from cell phones.”
“Cherry says that because cancer takes decades to develop, it will be another 10 or 20 years before “mobiles” manifest a big bonanza in brain tumors. But he adds, we’re already seeing “acute effects that are noticed within minutes of using a cell phone.”
“After two minutes’ conversation, a cell phone’s digitized impulses disable the safety barrier that isolates the brain from destructive proteins and poisons in the blood. Professor Leif Salford, the neurologist who carried out the research for this finding, informed the Daily Mail: “It seems that molecules such as proteins and toxins can pass out of the blood, while the phone is switched on, and enter the brain. We need to bear in mind diseases such as MS and Alzheimer’s which are linked to proteins being found in the brain.”
“Dancing with the Telecomonster If you must pack a cell phone, treat it like a loaded pistol. Keep it turned off. Don’t carry it near ovaries, testicles, or the heart. For partial protection, buy an antenna shield. Limit calls to one-minute, six to 10 minutes a month. Never fire off a cellphone with children anywhere in sight.”
“A better bet is to facilitate the growth of organic telephone networks with lots of fibre. Instead of more microwave towers, “We should be wiring up our cities with fibre-optic cables to provide Internet, fax, telephone, radio and television at very high quality,” Cherry urges, “rather than saturating our cities with the microwave, radiowave and low frequency signals all the time.”
“When it comes to cells, consciousness and cell phones, every call is collect. How can convenience count more than cancer? What is gained by being in constant contact with disembodied voices, while being “out of touch” with the friends and neighbours around us? Are we comfortable having our location traced by monitoring authorities?”
“Unless we start voting with our wallets, consumer complacency could prove as species-limiting as corporate cynicism. “Microwave frequencies are the same as those used in radar and your microwave oven,” says Florida cellphone tower opponent Joe Chwick. “You wouldn’t think of sticking your head in the oven, but there is no hesitation to putting the cell phone to your ear.”
By: will thomas
Thursday, July 06, 2006
http://campaignfortruth.com/Eclub/210305/CTM%20-%20phone%20dangers%20revealed.htm
Grave cell phone danger—pay attention to this! December 2, 2006
Posted by healthyself in 217 Hz, ADD, Addiction, ADHD, Adolescents, Aging, Allergies, ALS, Alzheimer's, angst, Antennas, Anxiety, arteriosclerosis, Attention, Attention Deficit, Autism / Asperger's, Bioeffects, Biological Activity, Biological Effects, Bioscalar Energy, Birth Defects, Blogroll, Blood Brain Barrier, Blood Pressure, Brain, Brain Cancer, Brainwave Interference, Breast Cancer, Cancer, Cardiac Problems, Cell changes, Cell death, cell membrane, Cell phone safety, Cell phone towers, Cell Phones, Cells, Cellular Morphology, Central Nervous System, Childhood Leukemia, Children, Children's health, Chromosomal damage, Chronic Exhaustion, Chronic Fatigue, Chronic Illness, Circadian rhythms, Circulation, Coherence, Communication, Community, Concentration, Connective Tissue Pains, Conversations, Cordless Phones, Cytotoxic Effects, Death, Dementia, Depression, Diagnostic marker, Digital, Dizziness, DNA, Dopamine, Ear, ear ache, earphones, EEG, Elderly, Electrical Components, Electrical Pulses, Electrical Surges, Electrical Wiring, Electrochemical, electromagnetic, Electromagnetic Communications, Electromagnetic Field, Electromagnetic Interference, Electromagnetic pollution, Electromagnetic Radiation, Electromagnetic waves, Electrosensitivity, Electrosmog, ELF, Emergency Medicine, EMF Research, EMF's, Employees, EMR, Endogenous Fields, Energy, Environment, Epidemiologists, Epidemiology, Epilepsy, Exposure, Eye Cancer, Eyes, Family, Fatigue, Fiber Optic, Flickering, Free Radicals, Frequencies, Games and Gaming, genes, genetic damage, grams of tissue, Hand Portables, Handheld Units, Harmonics, headaches, Healing, Health, Health related, Hearing, Heart, Heart Disease, heat, Heavy Metals, HF, High Frequencies, high voltage transmission lines, Hormones, HOuseholds, HRD, Human Resources, Humor, Imbalances, Immune system, Inflammation, Infrared, Inner Agitation, Insomnia, Integrative Medicine, Interdisciplinary, Internet, Intuition, Kids, Lack of Concentration, Learning, Legal Issues, LF, Lifestyle, Long Term Health Risks, Lymphoma, MCS, Medical Research, Medicine, Memory, Memory Loss, Men', Men's Health, Metabolic Changes, Metal Roofs, Microwave exposure, Migraines, Military, miscarriages, Mitigation, mobile telephones, Monitoring, Movement, nausea, nerves, Neural Electrophysiology, Neurasthenia, neurological, neuroma, neurons, neurosurgeons, Neurotransmitters, Noise, Non Profit Organizations, Non-Thermal Levels, Nutrition, oncogenes, Optical, Overtones, Pain, Pain Perception, Panic Attacks, Paralysis, Parenting, Penetration, People in Laboratories, Pets, Pineal Gland, Pregnant Women, pressure, Proteins, Public Policy, Pulsed Radiation, Pulses, radiation, Radio Frequency Radiation, Reaction Time, Research, Research Needed, ringing, ringtones, Risk Factor, Risk of Disease, Safe Levels, Safety, SAR, School administrators, School Boards, Schools, Seizure, sensations, Sick People, signaling enzymes, Sleep, Sleep disturbances, Stress, Symptoms, Teenagers, Telecommunications, Telephony, Tinnitus, Toxic Interactions, Traffic Pollution, Tumors, Tweenies, Unified Field, VDT, Vibrational Medicine, Who is Affected?, WiFi, Wireless Phones, Withdrawal, Women, Women's Health, Workplace, X-Rays, zinging/crackling.
20 comments
By: Will Thomas
Though intended for renovations, Chris Anderson would like all visitors to deposit their cellular phones in the cement mixer by his front door. This sounds excessive – until you step into Anderson’s orchard, where the pegged needle of a shrieking electromagnetic radiation (EMR) meter placed beside a connected cellphone still shows significant exposure 100 feet away.
Much to the chagrin of this certified EMR-mitigation specialist, every day some 300 million cell phone users are “reaching out and touching someone you love. Yourself, and anyone else within range of the microwaves emitted by your cell phone.”……Silicon sensors are already calling to each other. Soon, countless communicating microchips embedded in everything from bumpers to brooms will be sending streams of encoded electrical energy through glass, steel, concrete, bone and flesh. Exquisitely sensitive to subtle electromagnetic harmonies, human brains and bodies as intricate as galaxies depend on tiny electrical impulses to conduct complex life-processes – including the ability to read, recall and respond to these words. Acting as antennas, our anatomies just as easily tune into spurious signals from radio and microwave transmissions. .
….”a worse frequency could not have been chosen for the human anatomy.”
As cell phones conquer consumer minds and markets, researcher Carolanne Patton notes that “the brain reaches peak absorption in the UHF bands, right where cellular telecommunications operate.” British military scientists have discovered that cellphone transmissions disrupt the brain sites for memory and learning, causing forgetfulness and sudden confusion.
Other studies show that electromagnetic signals from cellular phones reduce the ability to concentrate, calculate and coordinate complicated activities such as driving a car. Startled by $4 billion a year in extra claims among cellphone-wielding drivers, North American insurers did a double-take that found simply juggling `cell phones is not causing a 600% increase in accidents over other drivers busy shaving, applying makeup, tuning radios, taming pets, making out, pouring coffee, retrieving dropped cigarettes, talking and gesturing to passengers, or actually steering the vehicle….Instead of just another dangerous distraction, tests conducted by the U.S.Department of Energy found that using a cell phone severely impairs memory and reaction times. “Hands-free” mobile speaker-phones cause even more crashes because they typically emit 10-times more brainwave interference than handheld units.
For all drivers dialing out on their cell phones, University of Toronto investigators report that the heightened probability of cracking up your car persists for up to 15-minutes after completing a call. That’s comparable to the risk of crashing while driving dead drunk exclaims Dr. Chris Runball, chairman of the B.C. Medical Association’s emergency medical services committee. Reeling from “dial-a-collision” costs, the government of British Columbia may join England, Spain, Israel, Switzerland and Brazil in restricting or banning the use of cell phones by drivers.
In New Zealand, cellphone towers are prohibited on school property because of possible health effects. But Health Canada regulations ignore the hidden hazards of cell-wrenching cellphones, which send pulsed signals through the skull in a process one expert likens to “jackhammers on the brain.” …
…. cellphone addiction mirrors the prestigious early allure of smoking – as well as an immensely profitable industry’s steadfast denial of risk and responsibility. …Sir William Stewart told London’s Financial Times that “children may be more vulnerable because of their developing nervous system, the greater absorption of energy in the tissues of the head and a longer lifetime of exposure.”
…a Ph.D. biophysicist warns that headaches, fatigue, lethargy, nausea, dizziness, depression, arteriosclerosis and even Alzheimer’s can result from frequent or prolonged calls on cell phones.
“There is also a higher incidence of cardiac problems,” Cherry comments, “in terms of the timing function in hearts. You get more heart attacks and more heart disease – it has now been shown in many studies.”
…..cell phones can murderously modify moods. In brains and bodies seriously derailed by tiny imbalances in trace minerals and hormones, depression, suicide, anger, rage and violence can result when calcium and serotonin levels are disrupted by cellphone transmissions….
.
….DNA damage is passed on to succeeding generations.
….we forget how inconvenient it is to contract cancer. …B-cell lymphomas doubled in mice within 18 months of one-hour daily exposure to power densities experienced by a cellphone user. B-cell lymphomas are implicated in 85% of all cancers.
…Sleep disorders, she learned, are common among people exposed to high levels of electromagnetic pollution.
…there is nothing “safe” about the new 1.9 gigahertz broadcasting frequency. Much like a boxer taking repeated blows to the head, rapidly pulsing cellphones signal permanent brain damage. A study by Dr. Peter Franch found unequivocally that “cells are permanently damaged by cellular phone frequencies.” This cellular damage, Franch noted, is maximized at low dosage – and “inherited unchanged, from generation to generation.”
….the production of histamine, which triggers bronchial spasms, is nearly doubled after exposure to mobile phone transmissions. Cellphones also reduce the effectiveness of anti-asthmatic drugs, and retard recovery from illness.
…. 217 Hz spikes are very close to the frequencies of human cell membranes.
…..because cancer takes decades to develop, it will be another 10 or 20 years before “mobiles” manifest a big bonanza in brain tumors. But he adds, we’re already seeing “acute effects that are noticed within minutes of using a cell phone.”
After two minutes’ conversation, a cell phone’s digitized impulses disable the safety barrier that isolates the brain from destructive proteins and poisons in the blood. …
…If you must pack a cell phone, treat it like a loaded pistol. Keep it turned off. Don’t carry it near ovaries, testicles, or the heart. For partial protection, buy an antenna shield. Limit calls to one-minute, six to 10 minutes a month. Never fire off a cellphone with children anywhere in sight.
A better bet is to facilitate the growth of organic telephone networks with lots of fibre. Instead of more microwave towers, “We should be wiring up our cities with fibre-optic cables to provide Internet, fax, telephone, radio and television at very high quality,” Cherry urges, “rather than saturating our cities with the microwave, radiowave and low frequency signals all the time.”
When it comes to cells, consciousness and cell phones, every call is collect. How can convenience count more than cancer? What is gained by being in constant contact with disembodied voices, while being “out of touch” with the friends and neighbours around us? Are we comfortable having our location traced by monitoring authorities?
Unless we start voting with our wallets, consumer complacency could prove as species-limiting as corporate cynicism.
“Microwave frequencies are the same as those used in radar and your microwave oven,” … “You wouldn’t think of sticking your head in the oven, but there is no hesitation to putting the cell phone to your ear.”
It’s worth reading this whole article…. put this in your url NOW:
http://www.newmediaexplorer.org/chris/2005/02/15/grave_cell_phone_dangers_revealed.htm
Victims of Mast Radiation October 18, 2006
Posted by healthyself in Animal Research, Bioeffects, Biological Activity, Biological Dentistry, Biological Effects, Biomimetic, BioPhotons, Bioscalar Energy, Birth Defects, Blogroll, Brainwave Interference, Cell changes, Cell Cultures, Cell death, cell membrane, Cell phone industry, CFIDS, Children's health, Chromosomal damage, Chronic Exhaustion, Chronic Fatigue, Chronic Illness, Communication, Conversations, Cordless Phones, Cytotoxic Effects, Decision Making, Definitions, Diagnostic marker, Digital, DNA, EHF, Electrical Components, Electrical Pulses, Electrical Surges, Electrical Wiring, Electrochemical, Electromagetic pollution, electromagnetic, Electromagnetic Communications, Electromagnetic Field, Electromagnetic Interference, Electromagnetic pollution, Electromagnetic Spectrum, Electromagnetic waves, Electrosensitivity, Electrosmog, ELF, Emergency Medicine, EMF Research, EMF's, Employees, EMR, Environment, Epidemiologists, Epidemiology, Family, Financial Considerations, Frequencies, Funding, GHz, headaches, Health related, HF, High Frequencies, high voltage transmission lines, HOuseholds, HRD, Hz, Immune system, Integrative Medicine, Interdisciplinary, Lack of Concentration, Legal Issues, LF, Lifestyle, Long Term Health Risks, Low Frequencies, MCS, Medical Research, Medicine, Men's Health, MF, MHz, Microwave exposure, Migraines, mobile telephones, MS, Neural Electrophysiology, Non Profit Organizations, Public Policy, Pulsed Radiation, Quantum Physics, radiation, Research, Research Needed, Resonant Frequency, Risk Factor, Risk of Disease, SAR, School administrators, SHF, Sick People, Sleep disturbances, Telecommunications, Transformation, University, Waves, Women's Health.
3 comments
[There]..” is a website dedicated to a international community of people suffering adverse health effects from masts and antennas in the vicinity of their homes.
If you are a victim of mast radiation or strongly concerned about the issue, please write your story and share your thoughts on this website! Please click on “Tell your story” in the left hand menu and create an online case history file. You don’t need to register with this website to participate and no personal information will be recorded. You only give out as much information as you wish to.
You can also email your story to us at: story@mast-victims.org and we will put it online.
The purpose of this website is to bring together people from all over the world that have become victims of insensitive mast and antenna siting. Telecommunications companies are drowning us in radiation and they are in a state of complete denial on whether these masts and antennas have any negative health impact on the population. Credible scientific research shows that especially mobile phone mast radiation is harmful and people are suffering. Some people have even been forced to abandon their homes after becoming ill from radiation.
This has got to change. So far only few people have come forward against the telecommunication industry and those who have deserve to be known and heard.
http://www.mast-victims.org is built as a community where people living under the threat of masts and antennas can record their case histories and share their thoughts online.”
http://www.mast-victims.org/
Science Says… October 10, 2006
Posted by healthyself in Animal Research, Antennas, Bioeffects, Biomimetic, Blogroll, Brainwave Interference, Cell changes, Cell Cultures, Cell death, cell membrane, Cell phone safety, Cell Phones, Cells, Cellular Morphology, Central Nervous System, Children's health, Chromosomal damage, Computer Rooms, Conversations, Cordless Phones, Cytotoxic Effects, Diagnostic marker, DNA, Electrical Components, Electrical Pulses, Electrical Surges, Electrical Wiring, Electrochemical, Electromagetic pollution, Electromagnetic Communications, Electromagnetic Field, Electromagnetic Interference, Electromagnetic pollution, Electromagnetic waves, Electrosensitivity, Electrosmog, ELF, EMF Research, EMF's, EMR, Encoding, Entrainment, Entropy, Environment, Epidemiology, Exposure, Frequencies, genes, GHz, grams of tissue, Hand Portables, Handheld Units, Health related, HF, High Frequencies, high voltage transmission lines, HOuseholds, Hz, Inner Agitation, Integrative Medicine, Interdisciplinary, Intuition, LF, Lifestyle, Long Term Health Risks, Low Frequencies, Medical Research, Men's Health, Metabolic Changes, MF, MHz, Microwave exposure, Mitochondria, nerves, Networks, Neural Electrophysiology, neurological, Neurotransmitters, Non-Thermal Levels, Parenting, Pulsed Radiation, Pulses, radiation, Radio Waves, Radios, Research Needed, Risk of Disease, Symptoms, Waves, WiFi, Wireless Phones, Women's Health, Workplace.
add a comment
FDTD analysis of a gigahertz TEM cell for ultra-wideband pulse exposure studies of biological specimens
IEEE Trans Biomed Eng. 2006 May;53(5):780-9.
Ji Z, Hagness SC, Booske JH, Mathur S, Meltz ML.
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Wisconsin, 1415 Engineering Drive, Madison, WI 53706, USA. zji@wisc.edu
Gigahertz transverse electromagnetic (GTEM) transmission cells have been previously used to experimentally study exposure of biological cells to ultra-wideband (UWB), monopolar, electromagnetic pulses. Using finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) simulations we examine the time-dependent electric field waveforms and energy dose spatial distributions within a finite volume of biological cell culture medium during these experiments. The simulations show that when one or more flasks containing cell culture media are placed inside the GTEM cell, the uniform fields of the empty GTEM cell are significantly perturbed. The fields inside the cell culture medium, representing the fields to which the biological cells are exposed, are no longer monopolar and are spatially highly nonuniform. These effects result from a combination of refraction and distortion of the incident wave, combined with excitation of resonant eigenmodes within the cell culture medium volume. The simulations show that these distortions of the incident waveform may be mitigated by supporting the sample on a high permittivity pedestal and modifying the incident waveform to more closely approximate a Gaussian pulse. Under all simulated conditions, the estimated maximum temperature rises are completely negligible, ensuring that any experimentally observed unusual cell function or histopathology can be associated with nonthermal effects.
PMID: 16686400 [PubMed – in process]
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&db=PubMed&list_uids=16686400&dopt=Abstract
Research Should Be Objective and Funded by Neutral Parties October 4, 2006
Posted by healthyself in Animal Research, Bioeffects, Biological Effects, Blogroll, Blood Brain Barrier, Brainwave Interference, Cell changes, Cell Cultures, Cell death, cell membrane, Cell phone industry, Cell phone safety, Cell Phones, Cells, Cellular Morphology, Children's health, Chromosomal damage, Cordless Phones, Cytotoxic Effects, Decision Making, DNA, Electrical Pulses, Electrical Surges, Electromagetic pollution, Electromagnetic Communications, Electromagnetic Interference, Electromagnetic pollution, Electromagnetic waves, Electrosensitivity, Electrosmog, ELF, Emergency Medicine, EMF Research, EMF's, EMR, Environment, Epidemiologists, Frequencies, genes, Government's role, Health related, Inflammation, Integrative Medicine, Interdisciplinary, Legal Issues, Lifestyle, Long Term Health Risks, Medical Research, Microwave exposure, mobile telephones, Motorola, Public Policy, Pulsed Radiation, radiation, Radio Waves, Radios, Research, Research Needed, Risk of Disease, Safety, School administrators, University, Who is Affected?.
add a comment
The controversy goes back to a study by Lai and Singh published in a 1995 issue of Bioelectromagnetics. They found an increase in damaged DNA in the brain cells of rats after a single two-hour exposure to microwave radiation at levels considered “safe” by government standards….
…The idea behind that study was relatively simple: expose rats to microwave radiation similar to that emitted by cell phones, then examine their brain cells to see if any DNA damage resulted. Such damage is worrisome because DNA carries the body’s genetic code and breaks, if not repaired properly, could lead to mutations and even cancer….
…”I don’t believe any of those studies have ever been replicated,” …says..a consortium that provides $1 million a year in funding for cell phone research….More recently, a European research effort by 12 groups in seven countries also documented DNA damage from cell phone radiation.”
“….there is “cause for concern” and more work needs to be done. Instead, Lai says, he and his colleague have been the focus of a campaign to discredit their research. Consider:
Internal documents from Motorola in the 1990s point to an organized plan to “war-game” Lai’s work.
When a scientist in California published results that seemed to support Lai’s findings, he lost research funding and eventually left the field.
At one point, the director of a group created to manage $25 million in industry-donated research money sent a memo to then-UW President Richard McCormick saying that Lai and Singh should be fired.
Federal money for scientific investigation in the field has dried up, supplanted by funding from the industry-funding that Lai and others say can come with restrictions so oppressive they hamper scientific inquiry.
The stakes, both in terms of potential ramifications and profits, are high. According to consulting firm Deloitte & Touche, the global wireless market is expected to grow to two billion subscribers by the end of this year. An overall dollar figure for the industry would easily be in the hundreds of billions, according to Louis Slesin, who as editor of Microwave News has followed the ins and outs of research in the field of bioelectromagnetics for more than 20 years.”
http://www.washington.edu/alumni/columns/march05/wakeupcall01.html
Can Your Body REPAIR DNA Damage? September 28, 2006
Posted by healthyself in 2.402 GHz-2.480 GHz, Bioeffects, Biological Activity, Biological Effects, Blogroll, Cell changes, Cell phone safety, Cell Phones, Children's health, Chromosomal damage, Cordless Phones, Cytotoxic Effects, DNA, Electrical Surges, Electromagnetic Communications, Electromagnetic Field, Electromagnetic Interference, Electromagnetic pollution, Electromagnetic waves, Electrosensitivity, Electrosmog, ELF, Emergency Medicine, EMF Research, EMF's, EMR, Environment, Exposure, genes, GHz, Hand Portables, Handheld Units, Health related, High Frequencies, Integrative Medicine, Interdisciplinary, Lifestyle, Long Term Health Risks, Microwave exposure, mobile telephones, Parenting, Pulsed Radiation, Pulses, radiation, Research Needed, Risk of Disease, SAR, Sound, Symptoms, Who is Affected?, Wireless Phones, Women's Health.
add a comment
“The question Is not” ;; If cell phone radiation can cause DNA damage?!?!
Below images prove without question it can! ;; “The question is”
Can your body repair DNA damage ;;without mutating genes?
Best Selling Author Kevin Trudeau Suggest Phone Safety Accessories From RFSAFE.COM In His Newly Released Book MORE Natural “Cures” Revealed!
International Experts Show Digital Antennas and Cellular Phones are Cause Serious Health Effects September 23, 2006
Posted by healthyself in Animal Research, Antennas, Attention, Attention Deficit, Bioeffects, Biological Effects, Blogroll, Blood Brain Barrier, Blood Pressure, Brain, Brain Cancer, Cancer, Cell changes, Cell Cultures, Cell death, Cell phone safety, Cell Phones, Cellular Morphology, Childhood Leukemia, Children, Children's health, Chromosomal damage, Chronic Illness, Circulation, Community, Concentration, Cordless Phones, Cytotoxic Effects, DNA, Electromagetic pollution, Electromagnetic Field, Electromagnetic pollution, Electrosensitivity, Electrosmog, ELF, EMF Research, EMF's, EMR, Environment, Epidemiologists, Epidemiology, Exposure, Eyes, genes, headaches, Health related, Lack of Concentration, Learning, Leukemia, Lifestyle, Long Term Health Risks, Low Frequencies, Lymphoma, Memory Loss, Men's Health, Metabolic Changes, MHz, Microwave exposure, mobile telephones, Motivation, Neural Electrophysiology, neurological, Neurotransmitters, Non-Thermal Levels, Pain, Pain Perception, People in Laboratories, Pulsed Radiation, Reaction Time, Research, School administrators, Sleep, Sleep disturbances, Tumors, Who is Affected?, Women's Health.
3 comments
“Internationally acknowledged experts in the field of RF research have shown that RF of the type used in digital cellular antennas and phones can have critical effects on cell cultures, animals, and people in laboratories and have also found epidemiological evidence (studies of communities, not in the laboratory) of serious health effects at “non-thermal levels,” where the intensity of the radiation was too low to cause heating. They have found:
Increased cell growth of brain cancer cells(4)
A doubling of the rate of lymphoma in mice(5)
Changes in tumor growth in rats(6)
An increased number of tumors in rats(7)
Increased breaks in double and single stranded DNA, our genetic material(8)
2 to 4 times as many cancers in Polish soldiers exposed to RF(9)
More childhood leukemia in children exposed to RF(10)
Changes in sleep patterns and REM type sleep(11)
Headaches caused by RF exposure(12)
Neurologic changes(13) including
Changes in the blood-brain-barrier(14)
Changes in cellular morphology (including cell death)(15)
Changes in neural electrophysiology (EEG)(16)
Changes in neurotransmitters (which affect motivation and pain perception)(17)
Metabolic changes (of calcium ions, for instance)(18)
Cytogenetic effects (which can affect cancer, Alzheimer’s, neurodegenerative diseases)(19)
Decreased memory, attention, and slower reaction time in school children(20)
Retarded learning in rats indicating a deficit in spatial “working memory”(21)
Increased blood pressure in healthy men(22)
Damage to eye cells when combined with commonly used glaucoma medications(23)”
http://www.cyburban.com/~lplachta/safeweb2.htm
But is this Good or Bad? (EMF’s) September 19, 2006
Posted by healthyself in Beneficial frequencies, Bioeffects, Biofield, Biological Effects, Blogroll, Cell phone industry, Cell phone safety, Children's health, Coherence, Communication, Community, Consciousness, Creativity, Decision Making, Digital, DNA, Electromagnetic Field, Electromagnetic Spectrum, Electromagnetic waves, Electrosensitivity, Emergency Medicine, EMF Research, EMF's, EMR, Endogenous Fields, Energy Centers, Entrainment, Environment, Epidemiologists, Financial Considerations, Frequencies, Funding, Grants, Harmonics, Healing, Health related, Integrative Medicine, Interdisciplinary, Intuition, Learning, Legal Issues, Lifestyle, Long Term Health Risks, Medical Research, Medicine, Meditation, Men's Health, Microwave exposure, Mitigation, mobile telephones, Monitoring, Non Profit Organizations, Politics, Public Policy, Pulsed Radiation, Quantum Physics, radiation, Research, Research Needed, Scalar Wave, School administrators, Solutions, Unified Field, University, Vibration, Vibrational Medicine, Vision, Waves, Who is Affected?, WiFi, Women's Health, Workplace.
1 comment so far
“Actually it’s either, or both. We are describing a set of hidden internal EM energy structures, the fundamental mechanism for internal EM structuring, and a tool.”
This was written regarding scalar energy. However, the principle is applied to everything here.
“A tool is amoral; it has no morality, and is inherently neither good or bad. The intent of the user of the tool, however, may be either good or bad. So the tool can always be used either way, for beneficial purposes or for evil purposes. It’s the hand that wields the knife that is moral or immoral; it is not the knife. The same cutting tool can be used by the surgeon to heal, or the murderer to kill. Human intent differentiates amorality into morality and immorality.”
http://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/scalar_tech/esp_scalarwar03.htm
Electromagnetic Frequencies can be healing or damaging. It is important to learn all we can about them, and use them wisely.Right now, the frequencies from cell towers can be damaging. Children, in particular, are being affected. Perhaps that is from ignorance of the effects. So research, learning and education are vitally important. As researchers and inventors get closer to the truth, closer to seeing the immutable laws of nature, and closer to their own innate sense of morality, we can find and the ways these energies can be used promote and maintain optimum health, expand consciousness and be the best of what we can be as homo spiritus.
“The greatness of human beings lies in our ability to do things which violate our instincts, to rise above the animal within. To use a term coined by the Chassidic Rebbe / Psychiatrist Abraham Twersky, MD, a human being is not merely “homo sapiens,” but “homo spiritus” – one capable of spiritual dominance over animal instinct.”
http://www.torah.org/learning/lifeline/5764/vayera.html
“David Hawkins in his latest book, I, uses the term Homo spiritus to describe the evolutionary shift in consciousness, which is now occurring. He writes, “The appearance in humanity of the realization of God as the ultimate Reality, substrate, and source of Existence and Creation marked the beginning of the emergence of a new, evolutionary branch of mankind called Homo spiritus. The term Homo spiritus refers to the awakened man who has bridged the evolutionary leap from physical to spiritual, from form to nonform, and from linear to nonlinear. The awakened man realizes that it is consciousness itself, which constitutes the core of the evolutionary tree in all its seemingly stratified and evermore complex expressions as the evolution of life. Thus, life transforms from the relatively unconscious linear to the fully conscious nonlinear, and Creation reveals itself to be the ongoing unfolding of the Unmanifest becoming Manifest. The capacity to reach the condition or state classically called Enlightenment represents the fulfillment of the potential of consciousness in its evolutionary progression.”
http://www.energeticawakening.com/Web-New/Homo%20spiritus.htm
« older posts
search
Categories
Categories Select Category “Cellular” Relay Antennas (10) “in vitro” systems (1) “in vivo” levels (1) “No Fry Zone” (1) “Silver” Fillings (3) .000021 W/Kg (2) .0004 W/Kg (2) .001 W/Kg (2) .0021 W/KG (2) .005 W/Kg (2) .03 – 3.7 mG (1) .0317 W/Kg (2) .05 Hz (1) .05 W/Kg (2) .13 W/Kg (2) .14 W/Kg (2) .1W/m2 (1) .2 mHz (3) .26 W/Kg (2) .4 W/Kg (2) .5 mG – 4 MG (2) .58 W.Kg (2) .6 W/Kg (3) .6 watts (1) .75 W/Kg (2) .9 mG (1) 0 Hz-3kHz (1) 0-4Hz (1) 000 Hz (2) 1 GHz- 300 GHz (1) 1 Hz (1) 1 megapixel (1) 1 mG (2) 1 mm (1) 1 THz (1) 1.2 W/Kg (2) 1.6 W/kg (6) 1.8 GHz (1) 1.9 GHz (1) 10 (1) 10 GHz (1) 10 kV/m (1) 10 Mbit/s (1) 10 mG (1) 10 W/m2 (1) 10 Watts Per Kb in the Head (2) 10 years (1) 100 Hz (1) 100 kHz-94GHz (3) 100 Mbit/s (1) 100 mG (1) 100 nm – 400 nm (1) 1000 GHz (1) 1000 Hz (1) 1000 mG (2) 10000 gauss (1) 10000 Hz (2) 10mW (2) 11 mG (1) 11025 Hz (1) 115 kV (1) 12-22 Hz (1) 12000 volts (9) 120000 Hz (1) 13 – 40 Hz (1) 13.56 MHz (1) 1320 Hz (1) 138 kv (2) 14 mG (2) 14-20 Hz (1) 15 Hz (1) 15 mG (1) 150 MHz (1) 15102 Hz (1) 16 Hz (9) 16-25 Hz (1) 16000 Hz (1) 16961 Hz (1) 17 mG (1) 17.6 Hz (8) 17959 Hz (1) 1800 MHz (1) 1800-2000 MHz (2) 192000 Hz (1) 2 mG (2) 2 W/kg (6) 2.32.5 GHz (1) 2.4 GHz (14) 2.4 mW/Kg (3) 2.402 GHz-2.480 GHz (2) 2.5 GHz (2) 2.6 GHz (1) 20 (1) 20 Hz (4) 20 mG (1) 20-27 Hz (1) 200 (1) 200 gauss (7) 200 mG (1) 20000 Hz (2) 200000 Hz (2) 217 Hz (4) 22050 Hz (1) 230 kV (1) 23000 uWatt/mw (1) 2450 MHz (1) 25 Hz (1) 250 kbit/s (1) 250- 500 Hz (1) 27.6 mG (1) 28224 Mhz (1) 3 GHz (1) 3 kHz (2) 3 kHz-300 GHz (1) 3 watts (1) 3- 30 kHz (1) 3-30 GHz (1) 3-30 mHz (1) 3-60 Hz (1) 3.1-10.6 GHz (1) 3.5 GHz (1) 30-300 GHz (1) 30-300 kHz (1) 30-300 mHz (1) 300 GHz (3) 300 MHz (1) 300-3000 kHz (1) 300-3000 mHz (1) 320 Hz (2) 32000 Hz (1) 33 mG (1) 34.8 mG (1) 35 mG (2) 3W/Kg (2) 4 mG (3) 4-7 Hz (1) 4.4 mG (2) 40 Hz (2) 40 Kbit/s (1) 400 MHz (1) 400 nm – 700 nm (1) 40000 bit/s (1) 410 Kbit/s (1) 42 Hz (1) 430 Trillion Hz-750 Trillion Hz (1) 440 Hz (4) 44100 Hz (1) 45 (2) 45 Hz (2) 450 mG (1) 45000 Hz (1) 47250 Hz (1) 480 Hz (1) 48000 Hz (1) 5 GHz (14) 5 Hz (4) 5-10 Hz (1) 5.4 mG (1) 50 Hz (34) 500 HMz (1) 500 Hz (1) 500 kV (1) 500 Volts (8) 5000 volts (7) 50000 Hz (1) 50400 Hz (1) 52 Hz (1) 55 Hz (1) 58Hz (1) 6.6 mG (1) 60 Hz (2) 60 Hz Magnetic Fields (60) 600-1100 watts (1) 6000 microwaves (1) 62-60 Hz (1) 62-68 Hz (1) 7 mG (1) 7-12 Hz (1) 700 nm (1) 8 Hz (1) 8.2 mG (1) 8.3 Hz (1) 800-1800 MHz (2) 8000 Hz (1) 824-849 MHz (1) 85 (2) 85 Hz (1) 85000 Hz (1) 868 MHz (1) 880 Hz (2) 884 MHz (1) 8W/kg (8) 9.6 kbit/s-16 Mbit/s (1) 900 mHz (11) 902-924 MHz (1) 908.42 MHz (1) 90v (1) 914 MHz (1) 935-960 MHz (1) 96.0 mG (1) 9600 bit/s (1) 96000 Hz (1) 97926 micro watt/square metre (1) aateriosclerosis (1) Absorption (5) AC Magnetic Field (3) Accelerated Aging (6) Acidic Terrain (1) Acidity (1) ADD (16) Addiction (17) ADHD (21) Adolescents (16) Aesthetics (8) Aging (31) Agriculture (3) airplane mode (1) airports (4) Alarming (4) Alkaline (1) Allergies (6) ALS (5) Alzheimer’s (22) Amalgam filings (6) Amplified Signals (17) Amplitude (10) Analog (2) Anatomy (1) Anger (4) angst (6) Animal Research (35) Animals (2) Antennas (15) Antibiotics (1) Antioxidants (6) Anxiety (8) Art (1) arteriole (2) arteriosclerosis (4) Asthma (1) Atmospheric Pressure (6) Attention (13) Attention Deficit (26) Auditory Nerve (2) Tumors (1) Auric Field (7) Autism (16) Autism / Asperger’s (19) B-Cell Lymphomas (1) Bacteria (1) beam (1) Bees (5) Behavior problems (1) Beneficial frequencies (37) Beta Rhythm (10) Binary (1) Binary Streams (1) Biochemical (11) biochemical signals (1) Bioeffects (108) Biofield (21) Biological Activity (95) Biological Dentistry (33) Biological Effects (185) Biologically Signficant (17) Biomimetic (6) BioPhotons (4) Biophysicist (1) Bioscalar Energy (7) BIPAP (1) birds (2) Birth Defects (15) Birth Rate (4) Blogroll (334) Blood (10) Blood Brain Barrier (22) Blood Cells (1) Blood Pressure (12) Blood Sugar (4) Blow Dryers (1) Bluetooth (5) Body Temperature (3) Brain (25) Brain Waves (1) Brain Cancer (50) Acoustic Neuroma (1) Glioma (2) Brain Damage (6) Brain Stress (3) Brain Tumors (7) Brainwave Interference (18) Breast Cancer (14) Broadcast Antennas (1) Bronchial Spasms (2) Budget (1) Buzzing (13) Bytes (2) Cable (5) Calcium (2) Canaries (3) Cancer (68) Parotid Gland (1) Cancer Protection (59) Captive Animals (3) Cardiac Problems (7) Catabolic (1) Cataracts (8) Cell changes (75) Cell Cultures (6) Cell death (7) Cell Gun (1) Cell Masts (12) cell membrane (17) Cell phone industry (93) At&T Wireless (1) Cell phone towers (47) Boulders (2) Cacti (3) Cemetaries (3) Chimneys (3) Church (5) Firehouse (3) Flagpoles (7) Historic Buildings (2) Island (1) National Monuments (3) National Parks (3) Old Faithful (2) Old Stone Buildings (1) School yards (4) State Park (1) Trees (4) Motorola (1) T-Mobile (1) Verizon Wireless (4) Cell Phone Pulses (13) Cell phone safety (327) Cell Phone Transmissions (24) Cell Phones (108) Heavy Use (1) Cells (53) Cellular Damage (7) Cellular Destruction (3) cellular functions (3) Cellular Morphology (7) Cellular Phone Frequencies (13) cellular signal transduction pathways (5) Central Nervous System (32) CFIDS (11) Childhood Cancer (9) Childhood Leukemia (10) Children (45) Children’s health (142) Chromosomal damage (53) Chronic (1) Chronic Exhaustion (14) Chronic Fatigue (25) Chronic Illness (27) Churches (9) Circadian rhythms (22) Circulation (18) Clear Link (4) Clicks (2) Cloning (4) codes (1) cognition (1) Cognitive Function (2) Coherence (24) Color (3) Communication (36) Community (16) Computer Rooms (14) Concentration (6) Confusion (2) Connective Tissue Pains (5) Consciousness (16) Control Group (2) Conversations (24) Cordless Phones (70) Cordless Telephone Base Units (4) CPAP (1) Creativity (2) Customers (1) Cytotoxic Effects (24) Danger (15) Dangerous (18) Data (3) Death (18) Die Off (1) Death Rates (6) Decision Making (80) DECT (3) Deep Sleep (1) Definitions (67) Delays sleep (1) Dementia (3) Denial of Risk (13) Dental Fillings (2) Depression (18) Detoxification (15) Diabetes (8) Diagnostic marker (30) Diathermy (1) Difficulty Concentrating (1) Digestion (3) Digital (33) disappearance (1) Diseases (9) Disruption of cellular (1) Distribution (8) Dizziness (12) DNA (41) DNA breakage (2) DNA Damage (5) Dolphins (2) Dopamine (8) Double Strand DNA breakage (2) Dream (1) Ear (14) ear ache (13) Ear Tumors (2) earphones (13) Earth (4) Edginess (2) EEG (23) Effectiveness (1) EHF (7) Elderly (8) Electric Field (4) Electrical Components (32) Electrical Pulses (48) Electrical Surges (45) Electrical Wiring (39) Electricity (4) Electrochemical (18) Electrochemical Communications (7) Electromagetic pollution (33) electromagnetic (42) Electromagnetic Communications (63) Electromagnetic Field (78) Electromagnetic Forces (4) Electromagnetic Interference (50) Electromagnetic pollution (240) Electromagnetic Radiation (66) Electromagnetic Signals (18) Electromagnetic Spectrum (39) Electromagnetic waves (156) Electrophysiology (7) Electrosensitive (3) Electrosensitivity (255) Electrosmog (192) Electrosmog meter (1) Elevators (1) ELF (195) Emergency Medicine (97) EMF Exposure (32) EMF Research (223) EMF Shielding (9) EMF’s (271) EMF-induced effects (28) EMI (2) Emissions (9) Employees (77) EMR (180) EMR meter (4) encoded electrical energy (1) Encoding (4) Endocrine (8) Endogenous Fields (16) Energy (11) Energy Centers (6) Energy Spikes (1) Entrainment (11) Entropy (5) Environment (250) Enzymes (1) Epidemiology (29) Epilepsy (9) Evidence (2) Exposure (66) Extra-Sensory Perception (6) Extremely Low Frequency (2) Eye Cancer (20) Eyes (5) Fall Asleep (1) Family (23) Fatigue (31) FCC (1) FDA (2) Federal Communication Commission (3) Fetus (1) Fiber Optic (6) Fibre-Optic (1) Figure Eight (1) Financial Considerations (28) Fire (2) Firehouses (7) Flickering (2) Florescent Light Balasts (1) Forgetfulness (3) Free Radicals (11) Frequencies (94) Fun (1) Funding (29) Fungi (1) Games and Gaming (17) Gamma Rays (4) Generations (3) genes (37) genetic damage (8) Genetically Engineered (1) GHz (39) Global Health Disaster (7) Global Warming (2) Golden Mean (1) Government’s role (66) grams of tissue (19) Grants (25) Grouchiness (1) Ground Currents (3) Grounded (1) Grounding Conductors (2) GSM (2) Guidelines (4) Ham Radio (1) Hand Portables (57) Handheld Units (31) Handsets (7) Harmonics (32) Hazard (7) headaches (24) Headsets (2) Healing (22) Health (33) Health and Safety Officer (16) Health Care (1) Health Care Facilities (1) Health Deterioratrion (1) Health related (259) Health and Wellness Products (17) Parenting (90) Teenagers (57) Health Risk (10) Health Risks (29) Health warnings (19) Hearing (17) Heart (16) Heart Attacks (5) Heart Disease (10) heat (27) Heavy Metals (23) Heightened Risk (8) HF (22) Hidden (2) High Frequencies (123) High Voltage Power Line (4) high voltage transmission lines (117) Histamine (2) Homes (10) Honey (1) Hormones (14) Horse (1) Hospitals (6) HOuseholds (111) HRD (28) Human Biological Experiment (4) Human Populations (19) Human Resources (22) Humor (4) Hybrids (1) Hyperactivity (1) Hz (54) Illness (3) Imbalances (5) immune and nervous funtions (3) Immune system (84) Immunity (4) Implement (1) Impotence (3) Infant Death Syndrome (7) Infectious Disease (6) Inflammation (24) Infrared (6) Inherited (2) Inner Agitation (21) Insects (2) Insomnia (6) Integrative Medicine (28) Integrity of sleep (1) Intensity (1) Interdisciplinary (49) International (2) Internet (12) Intuition (7) Investigate (3) Investigators (7) ionizing radiation (3) Islands (4) Israel (1) jammers (1) Kids (53) Tweenies (45) Knees (1) Lab Tested (3) Lack of Concentration (18) Landline (6) Laptops (9) Leakage (3) Learning (24) Legal Issues (67) Lethal (1) lethality (2) Lethargy (7) Leukemia (29) LF (23) Lifestyle (176) Lifetime (9) Light (30) light beam (9) Long Term Health Effects (28) Long Term Health Risks (138) Low Birth Weight (3) Low Dosage (1) Low Frequencies (65) Lung Disorders (3) Lymphocytes (3) Lymphoma (14) Mad Wave Disease (2) Magnetic (12) magnetic field (2) Magnetic Field Exposure (5) magnitude (1) Malformation (1) Malignant (2) masts (5) Maximum Output Level (2) MCS (45) Medical Devices (1) Medical Research (83) University (37) Medicine (17) Meditation (5) Melanoma (1) Melatonin (8) Memory (5) Memory Loss (23) Men’ (155) Men’s Health (152) Sperm Counts (1) Menstrual Cycle (3) Mercury (6) Metabolic Changes (16) Metabolism (4) Metal (1) Metal Roofs (11) Cars (6) MF (16) MHz (74) microchips (3) Microwave exposure (161) Microwave Ovens (5) Microwave Sickness (2) microwaves (8) Migraines (11) Military (6) Minerals (3) miscarriages (24) Mitigation (33) Mitochondria (3) Mobile Music (14) Mobile Phone Transmissions (18) mobile telephones (168) Mobius Coil (2) Mold (2) Molecules (1) Monitoring (14) Monitoring Authorities (5) Mood changes (1) Moods (2) Motivation (3) Motor Activity (3) Movement (5) MS (7) Music (12) National Security (2) Nature (1) nausea (7) Navigation (1) nerves (44) Nervous System (4) Networks (7) Neural Electrophysiology (17) Neurasthenia (5) neurological (26) Neurologist (2) neuroma (10) neurons (21) neurosurgeons (10) Neurotransmitters (11) Noise (49) Noisy Electric Motors (1) Non Profit Organizations (25) non-ionizing radiation (1) Non-Thermal Levels (9) Nose (3) Nutrients (1) Nutrition (10) Occupation (2) Ocular (7) ODC (1) oncogenes (14) Optical (6) Organic (2) Oscillate (11) Ovaries (2) Overtones (8) Pacemakers (6) Pain (7) Pain Perception (12) Panic Attacks (7) Paralysis (3) Parotid Gland (3) particle (1) Pathogens (1) Patients (2) PCN (1) Peak Absorption (4) Penetration (31) People in Laboratories (11) Perinatal Depressio (2) Permanent Brain Damage (3) Personality changes (1) Pesticides (3) Pets (15) PH (2) Phone mast (3) Photons (2) Photosensitive (3) Physical Therapists (1) Pineal Gland (10) Pitch (2) Pituitary Gland (1) plasma membrane (2) Poisoning (2) Poisons (3) Police Officers (7) Politics (11) pollination (2) Pollution (6) Polyamine (1) Poor academic performance (1) Potential Hydrogen (2) Power Densities (3) Power poles (4) Pregnant Women (9) pressure (11) Preventive Caution (3) Prolonged calls (4) Prolonged Periods (2) Proteins (5) Public (3) Public areas (5) Public Hearings (3) Public Policy (70) Publicizing (1) Pulsed Radiation (135) Pulses (37) Pure Tone (3) Quantum Physics (29) Quantum Vacuum (4) Quantum Waves (2) Questionnaires (2) QV (6) Rabbits (1) Radar (11) Radians (3) radiation (214) Radio Field Sickness (4) Radio Frequency Microwaves (8) Radio Frequency Radiation (18) Radio Transmitters (7) Radio Waves (37) radioactive waste (1) radioprotector (5) Radios (30) Rage (1) Rapidly pulsing (3) Reaction Time (5) Real Time (1) Realistic (1) Recommendations (4) Recovery (4) Red (1) Relay Towers (3) Repair Damage (1) Reputable Investigators (1) Research (138) Epidemiologists (59) Research Needed (86) Resonance (24) Resonant Frequency (22) Resources (2) RF Meters (1) Right Side of the Head (5) ringing (6) ringtones (6) Risk (5) Risk Factor (78) Risk of Cancer (12) Risk of Disease (155) Rooflines (3) rotation (1) Rural Areas (2) Safe Levels (78) Safety (57) Safety Barrier (6) Salivary glands (1) SAR (39) Scalar Wave (9) Scary (1) scavenger (2) School administrators (56) School Boards (42) Schools (37) Schuman Resonance (2) Seizure (5) sensations (24) Sensitivity (3) Serenity (1) Serotonin (9) SHF (7) Shieding (3) Shielding (5) Shields (3) Short-sightedness (4) Sick People (21) signaling enzymes (23) signaling systems (3) Signals (2) Silicon Sensors (1) Skull (8) Sleep (13) Sleep Centers (3) Sleep Disorders (8) Sleep disturbances (37) Smart Meter (1) Solutions (39) Sound (30) Space (1) Spacial Contrast Patterns (2) Sparrows (2) Speakerphones (6) Species-Limiting (3) Spectrum (6) Spectrum Analyzer (1) Spine (5) Stand-by Mode (2) Standards (2) Staph (2) State Parks (6) Static (2) Steeples (2) Stress (72) Stroke (5) Studies (5) subcellular structures (2) Subtle Energies (6) Suffering (3) Sufficient Evidence (5) Suicide (13) Susceptibility to Infection (8) Sweat (5) Switched On (4) Symptoms (75) Synapses (1) T3-T4 (2) Teachers (3) teeth grinding (5) Telecommunications (21) telemetry interference (2) Telephony (11) Terrain (2) terrorism (3) Testicles (1) Text (1) Throat (4) Tinnitus (11) Tissues (2) Tone (12) Towers (1) Toxic (4) Toxic Interactions (26) toxic particles (2) toxicity (8) Toxic Exposure (1) Toxin (29) Trace Minerals (4) Traffic Pollution (9) trains (8) Transducer (4) Transfer (15) Transformation (12) transmission (76) Transmitter Towers (6) TSH (2) tumorigenesis (3) Tumors (40) Twangs (1) UHF (8) Ultraviolet (3) Unified Field (10) University Research (5) Unsafe (10) vacuum (2) Vapor (1) VDT (30) VDU (1) Verizon (2) Vibration (49) Vibrational Medicine (27) Violence (3) Violet (1) Viruses (3) Visible Light (7) Vision (11) VLF (7) Voting (1) W/Kg (21) W/m2 (3) Walkie Talkies (1) watts (23) Wave Front (5) Waves (69) Wear and Tear (1) Well-Being (4) Whales (3) White Blood Cells (3) Who is Affected? (162) WiFi (51) Wind Down (1) Wired (6) Wired Phone (7) Wireless (23) Wireless Microphones (2) Wireless Phones (49) Wireless Revolution (16) Wireless router (1) Wireless Technologies (4) Wireless Transmitter (8) Withdrawal (3) Women (157) Women’s Health (152) Workplace (73) X bearing sperm (4) X-Rays (6) Y-bearing sperm (2) yawning (2) zapped (1) zinging/crackling (3)
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 115 other followers
Follow
Advertisements
Feeds
Full
Comments
Blog at WordPress.com.
Top
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy