Use Of Hydroquinone For Melasma And Pigmentation - Is The Remedy Worse Than The Problem? -
Home
About
Archives
Sitemap
Contact
Anti-Aging Store
Ebook
Featured Articles
Acne
Anti-Aging
Rosacea
Skin Care
Skin Care Videos
Wrinkles
Checkout
Categorized | Anti-Aging
---------------> Put Adsense or 300x250 Ad Here <---------------
Use Of Hydroquinone For Melasma And Pigmentation – Is The Remedy Worse Than The Problem?
Posted on 26 November 2016.
Melasma is an uncomfortable condition suffered by many women of all skin types and colors. Often the first recommendation for sufferers of hyperpigmentation and melasma is to buy an over the counter bleaching skin cream for skin whitening containing hydroquinone. Hydroquinone is the skin whitening agent of these creams.
Unfortunately, what most women using these skin bleaching products don’t know is that they are unsafe enough to have been banned in many places, including parts of Europe and all of Asia, due to the belief that higher concentrations are carcinogenic. Hydroquinone has been associated with severe side effects, some effecting the liver, kidney and thyroid. In some cases it may cause a permanent black discoloration called exogenous ochronosis.
Fortunately there are many natural known ingredients that can be used to lighten the skin as effectively as hydroquinone, without the health risks. Some of these ingredients include combinations of Arbutin, Vitamins A, C and E, and a brand new natural discovery called Lumiskin.
Arbutin is nature’s own hydroquinone. Made from the bearberry tree, it can be safely used for a long period of time. A safe and effective skin lightener and antioxidant, Arbutin reduces free radical damage that ages the skin, and protects from the sun’s UV rays. It also has antibacterial properties.
Vitamins A, C and E are a powerful combination when used together in skincare. Vitamin A is an antioxidant that helps promote healthy skin. It improves pigmentation by eliminating age spots, firming skin and fighting wrinkles. It also helps exfoliates dead surface skin cells. Vitamin C is an effective antioxidant which lightens skin by inhibiting melanin. It works against the damaging free radicals that dull the skin. Vitamin E is also a powerful antioxidant that is known to be very good for the skin. When Vitamin E is combined with Vitamin C, each are made more effective.
Lumiskin is an amazing new antioxidant product made from Chilean tree bark. It helps prevent future skin discoloration by inhibiting stress receptors. Lumiskin controls melanin to effectively lighten complexions, make skin color more even, and makes skin more radiant.
Melasma and skin pigmentation are difficult problems. They can be hard to treat effectively, and without the proper knowledge sufferers may turn to bleaching creams containing hydroquinone. However, there are well-formulated products available made with combinations of Arbutin, Vitamins A,C and E, and Lumiskin, and other effective natural ingredients. Some powerful skin lightening ingredients can even be found at your grocery store and solutions can be made at home. With the right knowledge, sufferers of melasma can get safe and powerful results without resorting to hydroquinone.
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website
Subscribe
Popular
Latest
Comments
Tags
Stay up to date
Subscribe to the RSS feed
Subscribe to the feed via email
Is That Penis Rash Caused by a Latex Allergy? November 5, 2018
Anti-Aging Without Botox May 15, 2011
Skin Treatments That Will Fight the Effects of Aging May 16, 2011
Simple Tips to Keep Your Skin Looking Younger May 17, 2011
Preventing Wrinkles Before They Start May 18, 2011
Is That Penis Rash Caused by a Latex Allergy? November 5, 2018
What Are the Symptoms of Mustard Allergy? November 5, 2018
Neck Lines Annoy You? Here’s How to Fade Them and Keep Them From Becoming Deep Wrinkles July 9, 2018
Green Tea Can Make You Look Younger February 27, 2018
Skin Care- How Skin Changes With Age February 6, 2018
anti-aging botox cream diet exercise exfoliation foods hydrating lotion makeup moisturizing nutrition oils relaxation skin care skin treatments sleep sunscreen supplements surgery UV rays video vitamins water
---------------> Put Adsense or 300x250 Ad Here <---------------
Categories
Acne
Anti-Aging
Featured Articles
Rosacea
Skin Care
Skin Care Videos
Wrinkles
Pages
About
Anti-Aging Store
Archives
Checkout
Contact
Ebook
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Recent Posts
Is That Penis Rash Caused by a Latex Allergy?
What Are the Symptoms of Mustard Allergy?
Neck Lines Annoy You? Here’s How to Fade Them and Keep Them From Becoming Deep Wrinkles
Green Tea Can Make You Look Younger
Skin Care- How Skin Changes With Age
Archives
November 2018
July 2018
February 2018
January 2018
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
May 2017
February 2017
January 2017
November 2016
July 2016
February 2016
November 2015
October 2015
May 2011
© Copyright 2017 Home Beauty Tips | All Rights Reserved | Powered by Prism Digital Marketing
Your # 1 Online Skin Care Magazine!