Magnets Fail to Relieve Arthritis Pain | Hiperfit Miami Beach
Top Miami Personal Trainer
Services
Online Training
Success Stories
Our Studio
Blog
FREE Reports
Contact Us
Get Started Here!
To Schedule your FREE, No Obligation Consultation and *FREE* Personal Training Session ($99 Value), fill out the form below:
Your information will never be shared by anyone.
Magnets Fail to Relieve Arthritis Pain
Published by hiperfitmiamibeach on September 19, 2013 | Leave a response
Magnets Fail to Relieve Arthritis Pain
Many people use copper bracelets and magnetic wrist straps to alleviate the pain of arthritis, but a new randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study concludes they do not work.
British researchers randomized 65 patients with rheumatoid arthritis to receive one of four treatments: wearing a powerful magnetic wrist strap, a weak magnetic strap, a non-magnetic strap and a copper bracelet. Each patient wore each device for five weeks and completed pain surveys. The study appears in the September issue of PLoS One.
The patients reported pain levels using a visual scale, ranging from “no pain” to “worst pain ever,” and recorded how often their joints felt tender and swollen. Researchers used questionnaires to assess physical limitations, and tested for inflammation by measuring blood levels of C-reactive protein and plasma viscosity.
There was no statistically significant difference in any of these measures regardless of which type of device patients were wearing.
Stewart J. Richmond, a researcher at the University of York who led the study, acknowledged that the devices may have some benefits as a placebo.
“People swear by these things,” he said. “Is it ethically correct to allow patients to live in blissful ignorance? Or is it better to provide them with the facts? We can’t deceive patients. We have to be honest with them.”
Posted in Personal Training
Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply.
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Current ye@r *
Leave this field empty
Grab This FREE!
Discover How To Get Back Into Your Skinny Jeans Within 29 Days Or Less!
Enter your name and email address below now for instant access to the free report
We will never sell, rent or share your info.
Topics
Motivations
Nutrition Tips & Strategies
Personal Training
Follow Us!
Navigation
Top Miami Personal Trainer
Services
Online Training
Success Stories
Our Studio
Blog
FREE Reports
Contact Us
Miami Beach Boot Camp
Miami Beach Personal Training
Miami Beach Nutrition
Miami Beach Personal Trainer
Miami Beach Weight Loss
Boot Camp Miami FL
Miami Beach Workout
Personal Trainer Miami FL
Personal Training Miami FL
Miami Beach Bootcamp
Hiperfit Miami Beach | 465 W 41st St Miami Beach, FL 33140 | (305) 674-9899
Copyright © 2019 Hiperfit Miami Beach.
Powered by WordPress and FitnessPro.
BACK TO TOP
Powered by Fitness Website Formula - Fitness Website Design *Before and after results shown are atypical and may vary from person to person
YES! Contact me today to schedule a FREE no obligation consultation.