Student Fears Turned to Confidence - Lifesmart Youth
Parent Videos
Donate
Guiding youth to lead healthy and safe lives.
Skip to content
Programs
Student Programs
Student Programs Overview
Bullying Prevention
Human Growth & Development
Healthy Relationships
Pregnancy & STD Prevention
Parents/Trusted Adults
Adult Programs Overview
Cyber Safety
Parent Portal
Places
Information For Schools & Camps
Schedule a Program
Resources
Bullying Prevention Resources
Healthy Relationships Resources
Human Growth & Development Resources
Pregnancy & STD Prevention Resources
Kids First on Fox59
Support
Donate
Become a Sponsor
Volunteer
About
Mission
Stats & Numbers
History
Leadership
Educators
Careers
Sponsors
Program Partners
Events
News
All Posts
Bullying
Healthy Relationships
Parents as Partners
Pregnancy & STD Prevention
Contact
Student Fears Turned to Confidence
May 13, 2015
Students weren’t sure what to expect heading into the HIV education classes
On April 15 while many were scurrying to file their tax returns, a team of SHA Health Educators and I spent the day in Scott County, Ind. In collaboration with the Indiana State Dept. of Health, Scott Co. District 1 and District 2 School Corporations and Scott County Memorial Hospital, SHA provided HIV/AIDS education to 1,700 5th to 12th grade boys and girls ages 11-18.
The serenity of driving through the beautiful rolling hills of southern Indiana seemed to mask the area’s HIV epidemic except for the large billboards cautioning truck drivers to not hire sex workers and the signs directing people to the Free Needle Exchange (for drug users) and HIV Testing Site.
A cautious start
The kids’ faces were another telltale sign that something was wrong. They shuffled into the auditorium quietly looking downward and fearful of hearing the “truth” about HIV. They had already heard horrors on the news and through the local gossip mill. They seemed sad, embarrassed, angry and scared that this potentially deadly disease had invaded their town and infected loved ones, neighbors and friends.
Our professional Health Educators went to work. They defined HIV and explained how the disease can be transmitted, including through tattoo needles, which came as a surprise to the kids. Shelley, Doreen, Patrick and Stephanie explained that they CAN safely give hugs, drink from a water fountain, play outside, use public restrooms, eat at restaurants, and come in contact with sweat or saliva.
Smiles emerge among questions
As the program continued they began to sit up straighter. You could see the relief wash over them. They learned that choosing to make healthy decisions will protect them from HIV.
The kids asked all sorts of questions. Can pets get HIV? Could a grandfather who got hurt in Vietnam have caught it? Do mosquitos transmit HIV? They were excited to have informed adults teaching them and responding to their concerns. They clearly knew what was going on in their community and had given the issue a great deal of thought. They were eager for tools and knowledge to take home and apply to their lives.
Kids and teens left smiling, holding their heads high and giving high fives to school staff. They now know that even though HIV isn’t curable, it is preventable!
Praise and bit of thanks
Teachers praised our staff for offering medically accurate, fact-based information in such a caring and positive manner. They, too, had questions about HIV and were glad to see the school address the issue.
I am personally grateful to have had the opportunity to present our program to these amazing students. Now, they are volunteering, going door-to-door in the community, talking about HIV prevention and sharing their stories in the school newspaper.
These young people will undoubtedly overcome the challenges facing their community.
Tonja L. Eagan, M.P.A., CFRE
CEO, Social Health Association of Indiana
Pregnancy & STD Prevention, Updates
Post navigation
PreviousNext
Categories
Bullying
Healthy Relationships
Kids First on Fox59
Parents as Partners
Pregnancy & STD Prevention
Updates
Recent Articles
Kids First on Fox59: Calling for Help for Your Family
LSY Grad Assistant Selected for Fellowship
Kids First: Danger of tech abuse in teen dating
LSY Board Member Becca Ford ELEVATE Award Finalist
Thirty youth professionals from across Indiana are selected to the prestigious 2019 Executive Journey Fellowship
Help us guide Indiana youth to lead healthy and safe lives.
Attend Learn
Donate Schedule
Connect
Sign up for tips and news
LifeSmart Youth
615 N. Alabama Street, Suite 228
Indianapolis, IN 46204
317-638-3628 | F: 317-638-3630
info@lifesmartyouth.org
©2019 This website and its content are copyright of LifeSmart Youth. All rights reserved.
Website by Sleeping Giant Creative