June | 2012 | Cell Phone Radiation News
Skip to content Skip to main menu
Cell Phone Radiation News
Menu
Mobile menu toggle
Home
ACOUSTIC NEUROMAS
BIOPRO CELL CHIP HOME HARMONIZER
BIOPRO CELL CHIP PREOTECTION
CANCER PROTECTION
CELL PHONE HAZARDS
CELL PHONE RADIATION
CELL PHONES PROTECTION
CELL TOWER DANGERS
CELL TOWER HEALTH
CELL TOWER PROTECTION
CELL TOWER SAFETY
ELECTRICAL HYPERSENSITIVITY
ELECTRICAL SENSITIVITIES
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION PROTECTION
EMF PROTECTION DEVICES
HEALTH RISKS
HYPERSENSITIVITY SYMPTOMS
Q LINK PENDANT
Q-LINK BRACELET GOLF
Q-LINK PENDANT AND CELL PHONE RADIATION PROTECTION
Q-LINKS PENDANT PROTECTION
QLINK PENDANT
QLINK PENDANT EMF PROTECTION
QLINK PENDANT REVIEWS
WIFI RADIATION PROTECTION
Home › 2012 › June
Monthly Archives: June 2012
Health Dangers from Electromagnetic Radiation confirmed in Californian Research
Posted on June 30, 2012 by liza sabado	— No Comments ↓
Qlink Pendant
Envi Headsets
Home Radiation Protection
A major review on the health effects of electromagnetic fields on workers and residents has been produced by the California State Public Health Department and represents nine years of research. It was made public in 2002. This report cost about US$7M. The research team was headed by three epidemiologists from the California Health Department.
A draft review report was sent around the world to independent epidemiologists and industry-connected epidemiologists asking them to assess the level of evidence for each of the health effects they were looking at.
Meetings with staff at the University of Berne
Dr Cherry learnt about the research when in Switzerland last October during interviews with Professor Theo Abelin, one of the world’s leading epidemiologists and an independent academic. He has recently retired from the University of Berne where he taught and researched preventative and social medicine. Professor Abelin mentioned to Dr Cherry that he was one of the epidemiologists from around the world working through the report and giving a professional opinion on it.
At the University of Berne Dr Cherry found that researchers there were unaware of the extent of his own research. They asked him, in the context of other discussions, about the number of studies that showed chromosome damage, melatonin reduction or DNA damage, and were amazed at how many studies he had showing those effects that were shown in their own research on sleep around the short wave radio tower in Schwarzenburg.
They had also done a study of brain cancer and leukaemia in electric train drivers and found a significant relationship between the electromagnetic fields in the trains and the drivers with leukaemia or brain cancer. They asked about the biological mechanisms and were very surprised that Dr Cherry had available information about so many studies supporting their results. This is just one example of the way in which he has integrated the knowledge reported by researchers and been able to share it with colleagues around the world.
Some important interconnections omitted from the review from California
This is a major review of the published evidence on the dangers of electromagnetic radiation. Dr Cherry considers that it is very good that on the one hand they have said that there is very strong evidence of an increase in the rates of child leukaemia, adult brain cancer, Lou Gehrig’s disease which is motor neurone disease, and miscarriage. On the other hand they do not appreciate and understand that these fields are genotoxic and reduce melatonin and damage DNA, which are the mechanisms behind these accepted effects and dozens of other effects which they dismiss. They do not appreciate the interconnections.
For example the evidence is very strong about cardiac illness and death, because if the heart cells are damaged heart disease results – but this is not accepted in the report. Nor does the review accept the strong evidence for the connection between electromagnetic fields and depression and suicide which are both caused by reduced melatonin. Both have been shown to have increased significantly in electricity workers or people living near power lines in a dose response manner. These two mechanisms also affect the immune system and this has an effect on asthma which was shown to be affected by power lines in Auckland, New Zealand Anxiety, depression and other neurological illnesses were similarly affected. The published paper recording this research is by Ivan Beale et al. 1997. Ivan Beale was Associate Professor Psychology at the University of Auckland and until recently the independent member of the Standards Committee. When he resigned Dr Cherry took his place as an independent academic.
In all the studies the severity of the illness is dose related. In the context of all the other evidence the illnesses are causally related to the exposure to electromagnetic fields.
The American Electric Utility Workers Studies have shown dose-response increases in cardiac death, suicide, leukaemia, and brain cancer.
Having collected so many studies Dr Cherry is more aware than many of the researchers of the integration of the discoveries – how the scientific pattern is explained if the connecting mechanisms are understood. The data is assessed in a more open manner making clear cause and effect to anyone who understands how factors interact.
Dr Cherry believes that his approach is nearer to that of people who study chemicals and will say that some chemicals are carcinogenic and study those needing classification by looking at the known data. If there is evidence that exposed workers get more cancer then they would say “”Yes, what they are exposed to is carcinogenic.””
Dr Cherry says, “”People will say that chemicals are different because you can see and smell and taste them, but I can see in my mind these electromagnetic fields because I am very aware of them as a scientist. I can measure them and I can see the wires that produce them. I can see the DNA damage and the melatonin reduction occurring, and therefore I can see how the heart, the brain, the lungs and the immune system are affected, how the bone marrow is affected producing lymphoma and leukaemia. Thus I have the same approach as the people looking at chemicals because I know the biological mechanisms that produce all these health effects.
“”People don’t realise that just because there is strong evidence of childhood leukaemia, brain cancer, miscarriage and motor neurone disease which the review from California accepts, these are not separate effects, but linked effects, along with many others.””
Spain, Madrid,
Togo, Lome
Uruguay, Montevideo,
Mauritania, Nouakchott
Panama Panama City
Singapore Singapore
Lichtenstein, Vaduz,
Indonesia, Jakarta City
Suriname Paramaribo
Vancouver Washington USA
Electromagnetic Field Meter
Click on any of the pictures below
to learn more
Anti-Radiation Air-tube Headset
Q-Link Products
EMF Harmonization Products
Tagged with are cell phones dangerous, are cell phones safe, cell phone, cell phone and health risk, cell phone brain cancer, Cell phone cancer, Cell Phone Dangers, cell phone dangers health, cell phone health, cell phone health effects, cell phone health hazards, cell phone health issues, cell phone health problems, cell phone health risk, cell phone health risks 2010, cell phone protection, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Radiation Danger, cell phone radiation facts, cell phone radiation health, cell phone radiation health risks, Cell phone radiation levels, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone radiation shield, cell phone radiation studies, Cell Phone Risks, cell phone tower dangers, cell phone tower health risks, cell phone towers health risks, cell phones and brain cancer, cell phones and cancer, cell phones and health, cell phones and health risks, cell phones brain cancer, Cell phones Cancer, cell phones cause cancer, cell phones health, cell phones radiation, Cell-Phones Health Risks, dangers of cell phones, health effects of cell phones, Health Risks Cell Phones, health risks of cell phone towers, health risks of cell phone use, health risks of cell phones, mobile phone health risk, mobile phone health risks, radiation cell phones, radiation from cell phones, risks of cell phones, safe cell phones, safest cell phones, wireless radiation
How to Reduce Electromagnetic Fields in Your Bedroom
Posted on June 30, 2012 by liza sabado	— No Comments ↓
http://www.emfnews.org/headset.html
Lifebluetube Headset
Cell Phone Radiation Protection
This is the room where you should be spending at least eight hours sleeping at night. If you’re tossing and turning instead, chances are you’re being kept awake by the unnatural, man-made voltage in your body caused by electrical fields coming from the wiring in your walls, the extension cords or power strip under your bed or desk, or the cords from your bedside lamps, clock and other appliances. Because your body restores itself overnight that’s also when your body produces 80 to 90 percent of its melatonin — you need to be scrupulous about reducing the sources of EMF in this room even more than the others in your house.
Clean Up Your Bedroom. Not the clutter, the electronics. Because the greatest healing occurs during sleep and you spend nearly a third of your life in your bed, the bedroom is the most important room of the house to zap-proof. This includes TVs, radios, clock radios, alarm clocks (except the battery-operated kind), cordless phones, mobile phones, heating pads and older electric blankets. They need to be out of the bedroom or at least as far from you as possible. Some people even turn off the electric power to their bedrooms at night.
Move the Bed. If you can’t cut power to your bedroom at night (if your smoke or carbon monoxide detector is hardwired to the circuit, you don’t want to do that), make sure your bed is positioned so your head isn’t near a power outlet and be aware of any AC magnetic fields that might emanate from below or next to you, such as those from a fluorescent or halogen light fixture, power mains, refrigerator, computer or other appliances. If it’s possible and your room is large enough, move the bed away from the wall because that’s where the electrical wiring of your house lives. You want to keep your body as far away — a minimum of 3 feet — from the fields as possible while you’re sleeping. Because metal transmits electric fields, you may also want to consider replacing your metal spring mattress or headboard with something made of natural material, such as a futon. If your bedroom is on a second floor, there may be no escaping wiring — it’s in the floor. In that case, your best, least expensive option for protection is to cut power to any wiring above, below or around your bedroom during the hours you are asleep.
Use a Battery-Operated Alarm Clock. If you can’t keep up with the battery changing, make sure your electric clock or clock-radio is at least 6 feet from your head — meaning you’ll actually have to get up to turn it off, which may be good in many ways.
Rethink Those Fans. Ceiling fans operate with an electric motor that will generate high magnetic fields in the room above, so they’re not appropriate in rooms beneath a child’s bedroom or playroom. Free-standing electric fans are fine as long as you keep them at least 3 feet from your body. So are fan, convection and oil-filled radiators as long as you keep them at the same distance. Remember the rule of thumb: location, location, location. Exposure is reduced by 85 percent every time you double the distance from the source of the magnetic field.
Invest in Room-Darkening Drapes. They won’t reduce your exposure to electrical and magnetic field radiation, but by keeping your room darker longer, they can help your body produce more melatonin, the antioxidant hormone that is diminished by exposure to light and to EMFs.
Iran, Teheran,
Switzerland, Bern,
Angola, Luanda,
Portugal, Lisbon,
Houston Texas USA
Egypt, Cairo: city limits,
Suriname, Paramaribo,
Czech Republic, Prague,
Cockburn Victoria Australia
Russian Federation, Moscow City,
Trifield Electromagnetic Field Meter
Click on any of the pictures below
to learn more
Anti-Radiation Air-tube Headset
Q-Link Products
EMF Harmonization Products
Tagged with are cell phones dangerous, are cell phones safe, cell phone, cell phone and health risk, cell phone brain cancer, Cell phone cancer, Cell Phone Dangers, cell phone dangers health, cell phone health, cell phone health effects, cell phone health hazards, cell phone health issues, cell phone health problems, cell phone health risk, cell phone health risks 2010, cell phone protection, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Radiation Danger, cell phone radiation facts, cell phone radiation health, cell phone radiation health risks, Cell phone radiation levels, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone radiation shield, cell phone radiation studies, Cell Phone Risks, cell phone tower dangers, cell phone tower health risks, cell phone towers health risks, cell phones and brain cancer, cell phones and cancer, cell phones and health, cell phones and health risks, cell phones brain cancer, Cell phones Cancer, cell phones cause cancer, cell phones health, cell phones radiation, Cell-Phones Health Risks, dangers of cell phones, health effects of cell phones, Health Risks Cell Phones, health risks of cell phone towers, health risks of cell phone use, health risks of cell phones, mobile phone health risk, mobile phone health risks, radiation cell phones, radiation from cell phones, risks of cell phones, safe cell phones, safest cell phones, wireless radiation
Electromagnetic Radiation Health Effects You Must Know
Posted on June 29, 2012 by liza sabado	— No Comments ↓
Lifebluetube Headset
Cell Phone Radiation Protection
Before understanding electromagnetic radiation health effect to your body, you must know how body cells function.
In your body, there is subtle electrical activity similar to electric circuits. This electrical activity controls vital bodily functions such as growth, metabolism, thought and movement.
Body electrical currents are as critical to the well being of human body as the flow of blood. Disturbance in this electrical network can be devastating to the correct and effective functioning of all organ systems, especially the brain. It may even harm your health and lead to development of cancer and other diseases.
Electromagnetic being
In other words, you are fundamentally electromagnetic beings. Tiny electrical currents exist in our body due to chemical reactions. It occurs as part of our normal bodily functions, even in the absence of external electric fields.
For example, nerves relay signals by transmitting electric impulses. Most biochemical reactions, from digestion to brain activities, go along with the rearrangement of charged particles. Even your heart is electrically active.
Voltages build and fluctuate, electric currents course through arteries, veins and across capillary walls. In the process, white blood cells and metabolic compounds are drawn into and out of surrounding tissues.
This electrical system “”works to balance the activity of internal organs and in the case of injuries, represents the very foundation of healing process””. (Bjorn E.W. Nordenstrom, MD in the 1983 medical book, Biologically Closed Electric Circuits: Clinical, Experimental, and Theoretical Evidence for an Additional Circulatory System)
A sensitive system
Your bodies are thus sensitive electromagnetic systems that run on millivolts. In other words, we are in reality a bioelectric machine. And your body also generates electromagnetic field. In fact, all living things such as humans, animal and plants generate EMF.
The basic nature of your body is frequency. Therefore, exposure to external frequencies from natural surroundings can easily cause you to pulse to the wrong beat. Even extremely small external charges far below the threshold of awareness can affect your body system and health.
Research shows that when you are exposed to one consistent external frequency for more than a few minutes, your body’s ability to run its own electrical circuitry at optimum efficiency is disrupted.
Immediate effects can result from direct exposure to electromagnetic field strengths at levels well above those typically found in your living environments. Intense magnetic fields for example, can cause nerve and muscle stimulation, and intense electric fields can stimulate your hair.
Your bodies are sensitive to even weak electromagnetic radiation. For example, low frequency electromagnetic radiation can affect your body’s circadian rhythms. It affects the production of melatonin hormone, which is produced by brain’s pineal gland. Melatonin is a hormone that regulates the biological rhythms of mammals.
Research done at Battelle Pacific Northwest Labs has documented that prolonged exposure to electromagnetic radiation causes reduced melatonin secretion. Reduction of melatonin level threatens your health and can result in psychiatric disorders like depression, shortened attention span and inability to sleep.
Decreased melatonin production can also increase the permeability of “”blood-brain barrier””, leaving you even more vulnerable to chemicals toxic effects.
Blood-brain barrier is a kind of safety barrier Nature has provided you to prevent dangerous molecules from entering the brain and causing damage.
How blood-brain barrier protects you
When you are exposed to chemicals that find its way inside your bodies, two protective mechanisms are utilized. Melatonin neutralizes the free radicals (cancer-causing agents) created by the chemicals. And the blood-brain barrier prevents chemicals from entering the brain and spinal cord.
Exposure to electromagnetic radiation breaks down the blood-brain barrier and hinders this protective mechanism. It will also affect the permeability of cell membrane of your nerves, blood vessels, skin, and other organs.
The intricate chromosomes DNA has also been shown to be affected by electromagnetic field. And iron, necessary for healthy blood and is stored in brain, is highly affected by electromagnetic radiation too.
Health hazards
Both strong and weak electromagnetic radiation emitted from any electrical or electronic equipment will interact with and affect human body’s own weak electromagnetic fields. Therefore, it interferes with your body’s natural healing processes and produces all sorts of health hazards.
As explained above, you are easily affected by electromagnetic radiation because throughout your body, every biochemical process involves precisely choreographed movement of electromagnetic field – sensitive atoms, molecules, and ions.
Medical information suggests that there may be links between prolonged exposure to electromagnetic radiation and health problems especially cancer, nervous disorders and birth defects.
Fiji, Suva,
Austria, Vienna
Albania Tirane
Nepal, Kathmandu,
Palestinian State,
Jamaica Kingston
Bangladesh, Dhaka City,
Mauritius, Port Louis,
El Salvador, San Salvador,
Central African Republic, Bangui
Trifield Electromagnetic Field Meter
Click on any of the pictures below
to learn more
Anti-Radiation Air-tube Headset
Q-Link Products
EMF Harmonization Products
Tagged with are cell phones dangerous, are cell phones safe, cell phone, cell phone and health risk, cell phone brain cancer, Cell phone cancer, Cell Phone Dangers, cell phone dangers health, cell phone health, cell phone health effects, cell phone health hazards, cell phone health issues, cell phone health problems, cell phone health risk, cell phone health risks 2010, cell phone protection, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Radiation Danger, cell phone radiation facts, cell phone radiation health, cell phone radiation health risks, Cell phone radiation levels, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone radiation shield, cell phone radiation studies, Cell Phone Risks, cell phone tower dangers, cell phone tower health risks, cell phone towers health risks, cell phones and brain cancer, cell phones and cancer, cell phones and health, cell phones and health risks, cell phones brain cancer, Cell phones Cancer, cell phones cause cancer, cell phones health, cell phones radiation, Cell-Phones Health Risks, dangers of cell phones, health effects of cell phones, Health Risks Cell Phones, health risks of cell phone towers, health risks of cell phone use, health risks of cell phones, mobile phone health risk, mobile phone health risks, radiation cell phones, radiation from cell phones, risks of cell phones, safe cell phones, safest cell phones, wireless radiation
Does Electromagnetic Radiation Pose Any Health Hazards?
Posted on June 29, 2012 by liza sabado	— No Comments ↓
Qlink Pendant
Envi Headsets
Home Radiation Protection
The widespread use of the light bulb one of the most life-changing events in the past 10,000 years — was how it all began. In October 1882, Thomas Edison built the first electrical plant that lit just 1,300 street lamps and homes in New York City. What followed was an unprecedented avalanche of inventions that harnessed electric power to make Americans more productive and prosperous, as well as safer and healthier, than ever before. In just the first half of the 20th century, Americans were introduced to everything from conveyor belts, printing presses, electrocardiograms and X-ray machines to radio, radar, television and computers.
In the last 15 years alone, the latest modern electronic wonder wireless technology has expanded like a sponge in water. Today, 84 percent of Americans own cell phones, and by 2012, the wireless industry is expected to become a larger sector of the U.S. economy than agriculture and automobiles. About 89 million of us watch TV shows beamed to us by satellite sports, music, comedy and drama captured by a metal dish on the roof or outside a high-rise window. And you can’t have a cup of coffee at Starbucks without being subject to Wi-Fi, the wireless network that allows you to surf the Internet as you sip your latte.
Yet we may not understand the potential consequences of our latest discoveries any better than our earliest ancestors understood the perils of fire.
Unraveling the Mystery
In the past decade, I have experienced some baffling symptoms for which I could find no relief. In 2005, I was diagnosed with a (thankfully) benign tumor of the parotid, one of the salivary glands located just below the earlobe. Why I got it was a mystery that puzzled even my doctor. It’s a rare tumor, most often caused by radiation exposure. I didn’t live near a nuclear plant, I hadn’t been exposed to an inordinate number of medical X-rays or other screening tests and, except for a brief time I spent working as a nutritionist in a hospital, I hadn’t even been near a CAT scanner or MRI machine. But, on a hunch, I began my investigations with a theory: What if I was suffering from was an environmental condition, one caused by something I’m exposed to every day but consider harmless?
There are several historical connections that supported my suspicions. Many well-respected historians believe the Romans were the first society to be destroyed by environmental toxicity. Wealthy Romans painted their walls with lead-based paint. They used the heavy metal for everything, from water pipes to toys, statues, cosmetics, coffins and roofs. But in an article written for The New England Journal of Medicine, lead poisoning researcher and environmental chemist at the University of Michigan, Jerome Nriagu, Ph.D., D.Sc., says it was their consumption of copious amounts of wine that may have given them their heaviest dose.
The Romans flavored their wine by simmering the grape juice in lead pots or lead-lined copper kettles, which not only affected taste but made the wine last longer. Lead has a sweet taste, so it enhanced the sweetness of the wine — which earned the metal the reputation as the “sweet poison.” The acidic nature of the grapes extracted large amounts of lead from the utensils, and then the Romans quaffed the drink out of lead cups. They may have been taking in as much as 20 milligrams of lead a day just from wine alone enough to cause chronic lead poisoning, diminish fertility, and cause mental and emotional impairments.
After more than a year of research, I’ve come to the conclusion that we, such as the ancient Romans, are being exposed to an invisible type of “new” pollution that is making our life “sweeter” certainly more convenient — but that comes with formidable and unforeseen side effects.
It’s called “electropollution.” It’s odorless, colorless and invisible, and it’s probably enveloping you right now. As writer Sara Shannon writes in her 1993 book, Technology’s Curse: Diet for the Atomic Age, about low-level radiation: “It cannot be seen, felt or heard. It is tasteless and odorless. It is in our food and in the air; it is in our blood and in our bones and can remain in our ashes to go on to contaminate someone else.”
Our “sweet poison” is the electromagnetic fields (EMFs) produced by our cell phones, PDAs, wireless networks, cell and broadcast towers, power lines, fluorescent lights, and even the electrical systems that power our appliances, TVs, computers and bedside alarm clocks all those technological devices that make our lives easier. We are affected 24/7 by an unprecedented number of frequencies and wavelengths. By some estimates, we’re exposed daily to as much as 100 million times more electromagnetic radiation than our grandparents were. It flows around us, in us, and interferes with the body’s fundamental electric forces of life, including the communication between our cells that tells them how to grow, develop, divide, and even when to die.
Jordan, Amman
Turkey, Ankara
Vietnam Hanoi
Finland Helsinki
Hungary, Budapest,
Uganda, Kampala,
Sale Victoria Australia
South Bend Indiana USA
Andorra, Andorra la Vella
United States, Washington, D.C.
Electromagnetic Field Meter
Click on any of the pictures below
to learn more
Anti-Radiation Air-tube Headset
Q-Link Products
EMF Harmonization Products
Tagged with are cell phones dangerous, are cell phones safe, cell phone, cell phone and health risk, cell phone brain cancer, Cell phone cancer, Cell Phone Dangers, cell phone dangers health, cell phone health, cell phone health effects, cell phone health hazards, cell phone health issues, cell phone health problems, cell phone health risk, cell phone health risks 2010, cell phone protection, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Radiation Danger, cell phone radiation facts, cell phone radiation health, cell phone radiation health risks, Cell phone radiation levels, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone radiation shield, cell phone radiation studies, Cell Phone Risks, cell phone tower dangers, cell phone tower health risks, cell phone towers health risks, cell phones and brain cancer, cell phones and cancer, cell phones and health, cell phones and health risks, cell phones brain cancer, Cell phones Cancer, cell phones cause cancer, cell phones health, cell phones radiation, Cell-Phones Health Risks, dangers of cell phones, health effects of cell phones, Health Risks Cell Phones, health risks of cell phone towers, health risks of cell phone use, health risks of cell phones, mobile phone health risk, mobile phone health risks, radiation cell phones, radiation from cell phones, risks of cell phones, safe cell phones, safest cell phones, wireless radiation
The Longterm Effects of ElectroMagnetic Radiation
Posted on June 28, 2012 by liza sabado	— No Comments ↓
Lifebluetube Headset
Cell Phone Radiation Protection
We are bombarded by low levels of radiation from all directions. There are so many sources until reducing them would mean major changes in most of the things that we do daily, most without a second thought.
For example, did you know that the following give off radiation emissions? Hair dryers, cell phones, power lines, transformers, clock radios. We get it from watching TV and working in offices with fluorescent lights. Basically, we are radiated at home, work and most other places we go.
Electromagnetic radiation causes tissue damage by releasing electrons in the cells, called ionization. This is bad. Your body needs electrons to function properly. Possible damages from the low level radiation over time can cause digestive problems which can cause abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, it can alter and mutate DNA.
Possible Outcomes of Prolonged Exposure
Tumors
Irritable Bowel Disease
Damage to the intestinal mucus lining
Colon cancer in the more sensitive colons
Cellphones and Cellular Towers
The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers in 1999 met with wireless industry representatives. Despite the fact that radiation from cellular devices is demonstrated to be dangerous, they unanimously decided to raise the radiation exposure limit, for better service was the reason. And they did this in spite of the danger to their customers, just to make money. They continue on their trajectory for profit, raising more and more towers, protecting only their interests.
Knowing that there is danger inherent in owning and operating cellular devices has not curbed the manufacture or selling strategies of cellular providers. This knowledge has not encouraged the government to stop cellular providers from raising the acceptable emissions allowances. This information hasn’t even inspired a cellular provider to voluntarily include a frequency-absorbing chip to protect their customers.
Cellular Towers continue to be erected on office buildings’ sides, and tops. Only monetary consideration between the buildings’ owners and the cellular providers determines the feasibility. The towers harm people by emitting very high levels of the RF radiation sometimes exceeding the guidelines posted by the Federal Trade Commission. The harm is done to anyone in close proximity to the tower, certainly to the workers in the facility.
Because they know the dangers of owning and operating cellular devices, cellular providers have wrangled legislations that protect them from liability related to their products. Further, no insurance companies will pay for illnesses caused by prolonged use of cellular devices; this also protects the cellular providers. They were at one point even trying to make it necessary for customers to sign an agreement to not participate in suing them.
Toxic Radiation Generated at Home and Work
Many of the electronic conveniences we use can be a danger to us, because of the low level electromagnetic fields (EMF) they generate.
To make matters worse, non-electronic products around the house, magnify the effects of the radiation. The wire in a bra for example can behave like an antenna. If the field created by electrical devices is strong enough, the metal frames and/or springs can be magnetized; this can disrupt your body’s functions during sleep.
At work, there are similar dangers: radiation sources and radiation enhancers. Certain occupations present more of a risk than others. The workers listed below have the greatest radiation exposure daily:
This is exactly why we carry a number of radiation protection products. Keeping these in your living environment can help protect you from any harmful effects of electromagnetic radiation that you may get.
Office workers are not safe either. They have to contend with fluorescent lighting, computers and other electronic devices that people rarely, if ever, hesitate to use.
Nigeria, Abuja
Taiwan, Taipei
Armenia, Yerevan,
Albania, Tirana,
Congo, Brazzaville,
Mozambique Maputo
Iceland, Rekyavik,
Wollongong Australia
Honduras, Tegucigalpa,
Huntington Beach California USA
Trifield Electromagnetic Field Meter
Click on any of the pictures below
to learn more
Anti-Radiation Air-tube Headset
Q-Link Products
EMF Harmonization Products
Tagged with are cell phones dangerous, are cell phones safe, cell phone, cell phone and health risk, cell phone brain cancer, Cell phone cancer, Cell Phone Dangers, cell phone dangers health, cell phone health, cell phone health effects, cell phone health hazards, cell phone health issues, cell phone health problems, cell phone health risk, cell phone health risks 2010, cell phone protection, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Radiation Danger, cell phone radiation facts, cell phone radiation health, cell phone radiation health risks, Cell phone radiation levels, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone radiation shield, cell phone radiation studies, Cell Phone Risks, cell phone tower dangers, cell phone tower health risks, cell phone towers health risks, cell phones and brain cancer, cell phones and cancer, cell phones and health, cell phones and health risks, cell phones brain cancer, Cell phones Cancer, cell phones cause cancer, cell phones health, cell phones radiation, Cell-Phones Health Risks, dangers of cell phones, health effects of cell phones, Health Risks Cell Phones, health risks of cell phone towers, health risks of cell phone use, health risks of cell phones, mobile phone health risk, mobile phone health risks, radiation cell phones, radiation from cell phones, risks of cell phones, safe cell phones, safest cell phones, wireless radiation
Electromagnetic Radiation Threatening Our Lives
Posted on June 28, 2012 by liza sabado	— No Comments ↓
Qlink Pendant
Envi Headsets
Home Radiation Protection
This excellent article from Istanbul by Gürhan Savgi was published on 25 March 2012 in Today’s Zaman. It describes in layman’s terms the health scourge being created by mobile phone towers, the nature of electromagnetic waves, and ways to reduce radiation from these waves. While many countries are now rolling out 4G technology, the article mentions the heightened radiation risks of 3G. What are we doing to ourselves?! Articles from many different countries show that mobile technology is becoming a serious health concern.
Çamlıca, the famous hill on İstanbul’s Bosporus, the subject of so many poems and songs in the past, seems to inspire more complaints than compliments these days.
Now a field of antennae, Çamlıca looks nothing like it used to a century ago. People living nearby complain of insomnia, headaches, fatigue and frayed nerves. Some assert that this electromagnetic pollution is causing cancer rates to soar. The muhtarı or neighborhood headman of Kısıklı is Erkan Kalkan. Kalkan, whose father died recently of cancer, asserts that all of the 30,000 people who live here are affected by local electromagnetic pollution. The situation is not much different over on Irmak Sokak in the Ferah neighborhood, where two young mothers in their 30s and one taxi driver in his 40s are battling cancer. Battal Polat (70) points out that the giant antenna put up by TRT in 1972 right next to his home has even dried out the cherry trees he planted. He even connects the stroke of his wife, Gülcemal Polat, to the electromagnetic pollution, and then goes on to count other local incidences of both strokes and cancer.
But the clearly visible effects wrought by the electromagnetic pollution in Çamlıca threaten us all. We are all surrounded by waves of electromagnetic energy. Cell phones, which have almost become part of our bodies, and televisions, in front of which we seem to spend hours nightly, are also magnetic transmitters. The list goes on and on.
Electromagnetic waves classified as radiation
Electromagnetic waves travel at the speed of light in free space: 300,000 kilometers per second. The speed with which they spread depends on the size, frequency and speed of the wave itself, as well as any medium it passes through.
Electromagnetic waves, thanks to their ability to enter into materials, are classified as radiation. As for radiation, it is analyzed in two classes: One that is able to ionize (break off electrons from atom molecules) atoms of objects and one that cannot. All electrical devices, cell phones and communication devices belong to the latter category. But nuclear radiation, X-ray devices, MRI machines and so on are in the latter category. As for electromagnetic radiation, it is also classified in two different categories: very low frequency radiation (ELF) and then radio frequency (RF). Electrical communications wiring and electrical devices at home, for example, introduce ELF radiation into our lives, while RF is brought to us by cell phones, base stations, radio and TV antennae, modems, radar, jammers and microwave ovens.
Short-term electromagnetic waves can cause headaches, burning eyes, fatigue, night insomnia and dizziness. Long term, they can cause damage to the immune system, as well as to molecular structures, chemical bonds, and cell structure in our bodies.
Professor Selim Şeker from Bosporus University is an expert on electromagnetic pollution and the biological damage that results from it.
Low frequency radiation
Şeker believes the most influential factors in our lives these days when it comes to electromagnetic pollution are cell phones. There are an estimated 4.8 billion users across the globe, with 136 million active cell phones in Turkey alone. Around 44 percent of these are 3G subscribers. Turkey is ranked fourth in the world for size of cell phone market, with around 46,000 base stations throughout the country. If you count the non-registered phones, it is estimated that there are around 225 million cell phones in Turkey today.
One cannot actually feel electromagnetic pollution. But it can increase body temperature by anywhere from 0.5-2 degrees, thus disrupting a delicate balance. The brain waves that we create in our bodies are also electromagnetic arenas. Since all the home electrical devices we use operate at 50 Hz, they can be compared to brain waves in terms of radiation. There is the Specific Absorption Value (SAR), discovered in 1988, which says that for a person 170 centimeters tall, a heat increase of 1 degree is within safety limits. But there are new standards called for today, due to the intensity of electromagnetic forces and the increased amounts of time for which people are exposed to them.
How are the limits and standards set?
Şeker notes that limitations for cell phones are kept at a very high mark. He says that while in most European countries, cell phone signals are kept at 1 volts/meter, in Turkey it is 10 volts/meter. Şeker points out another interesting detail: “When they are clarifying the limit values to these things, they use a plastic mannequin filled with meat to imitate a human’s organs. Then they start radiating the signal and watch for an increase in body heat. But this is where they make a mistake; after all, the mannequin is lifeless!”
The standards set in 1988 for electromagnetic pollution are still in place; Şeker asserts we need new ones.
3G spreads radiation
Şeker notes the dangers inherent in 3G, which has a different modulation level. He says 3G phones are 10 times riskier than other phones due to their connection modulation, and that they thus require different safety criteria. The entrance of 3G into Turkey has meant a need for many more base stations, because the coverage area of 3G stations is around nine times as narrow as that of other stations. Experts warn that this kind of technology will spread radiation.
Radiation hill Çamlıca
Interestingly, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s home in Kısıklı, and some well-known company headquarters are located in the Çamlıca area.
In the early 1990s, when new radio and TV stations started popping up, Çamlıca became a center for large radio and television transmitters. The hill used to just house some police wireless and radio antennas, and some TRT transmitters, but now it is a literal field or sea of transmitters. High electromagnetic pollution levels in and around Çamlıca were actually noted back in 2001. At the time, Sakarya University professor Osman Çerezci visited the area to measure levels of pollution. Çerezci and his team discovered that one single transmitter at Küçük Çamlıca was emitting 32 volts/meter; the safety limit had already been set at 28 volts/meter.
Professor Hilmi Sabuncu of Yeni Yüzyıl University notes that the emissions from television transmitters are much higher than those from cell phone base stations. Some of the most powerful base stations emit 40 watts and some radio transmitters emit 4,000 watts, while television transmitters emit 40,000 watts. He says: “It is a very harmful situation in Çamlıca, where the recorded numbers tell us that people who live in the immediate area must have constantly elevated body temperatures. There needs to be more research done about the link between incidents of cancer and signal intensity in the area.”
Ways to reduce electromagnetic waves
New buildings and schools should be constructed at least 120 meters away from high voltage wires and power stations. When possible, high voltage lines should be built underground. You should sit at least one meter away from the TV when watching, and children should be encouraged to watch from further away if possible. Choose low radiation computer screens, and LCD screens. Do not use halogen or florescent lamps for reading. Do not place TVs and computers in your bedroom. Switch electric radios near your bed to ones that work with batteries. Do not use hair dryers too often. Laptops give off many more electromagnetic waves when being charged, so try not to use your laptop when it is charging. Wireless telephones and wireless modems should be set up in rooms in your home where people do not sleep. Use your cell phone as little as possible, and when possible, use headsets. Try to choose models with low SAR levels. If you must carry your cell phone in your pocket, make sure it is placed with the face facing your body. Do not place it in your bedroom when you are sleeping.
Bulgaria, Sofia,
Norway Oslo
Namibia, Windhoek,
Kazakhstan, Astana,
Nicaragua, Managua,
Venezuela, Caracas,
Panama, Panama City,
Canning Victoria Australia
Burkina Faso, Ouagadougou
Guatemala, Guatemala City
Electromagnetic Field Meter
Click on any of the pictures below
to learn more
Anti-Radiation Air-tube Headset
Q-Link Products
EMF Harmonization Products
Tagged with are cell phones dangerous, are cell phones safe, cell phone, cell phone and health risk, cell phone brain cancer, Cell phone cancer, Cell Phone Dangers, cell phone dangers health, cell phone health, cell phone health effects, cell phone health hazards, cell phone health issues, cell phone health problems, cell phone health risk, cell phone health risks 2010, cell phone protection, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Radiation Danger, cell phone radiation facts, cell phone radiation health, cell phone radiation health risks, Cell phone radiation levels, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone radiation shield, cell phone radiation studies, Cell Phone Risks, cell phone tower dangers, cell phone tower health risks, cell phone towers health risks, cell phones and brain cancer, cell phones and cancer, cell phones and health, cell phones and health risks, cell phones brain cancer, Cell phones Cancer, cell phones cause cancer, cell phones health, cell phones radiation, Cell-Phones Health Risks, dangers of cell phones, health effects of cell phones, Health Risks Cell Phones, health risks of cell phone towers, health risks of cell phone use, health risks of cell phones, mobile phone health risk, mobile phone health risks, radiation cell phones, radiation from cell phones, risks of cell phones, safe cell phones, safest cell phones, wireless radiation
Are the Dangers of Electromagnetic Radiation A Factor for Your Health?
Posted on June 27, 2012 by liza sabado	— No Comments ↓
Qlink Pendant
Envi Headsets
Home Radiation Protection
The dangers of electromagnetic radiation are becoming very evident and associated with many diseases and health problems. Some say it is scientifically impossible for electromagnetic radiation (EMR) to affect us. Some studies prove the cell damage EMF causes. But I don’t need to see any studies to know about the dangers of electromagnetic radiation. I WAS THE STUDY and continue to be on a daily basis.
I Was the Study!
Electromagnetic radiation gave me cancer, within three weeks of exposure to a very strong field, and electromagnetic hypersensitivity (EHS). Though my cancer is now gone, every exposure to electric, magnetic, wireless or ionizing radiation causes my old cancer spots to ache and ‘feel sick’ again – instantly (depending on the strength of the exposure).
Over a two year period, I reduced, eliminated and regained various cancers several times because of EMF radiation in my environment. As I felt the EMF radiation turning my tissue into unhealthy tissue, my tests would prove the cancer was back or had grown. When I reduced the radiation exposure drastically, discharged each exposure and repaired and eliminated the damaged cells, my test would show exactly what I felt – the cancer was gone or almost gone.
God gave me this clear picture of the harm of EMF and then taught me what to do to keep myself safe and to heal the damage. This website provides you with the information you need for EMF protection so you don’t have to go through what I did. And if you are already there – I can help you to have the most normal life possible in a world maxed out with EMF radiation. Excessive EMF radiation can change your life forever! It can take many years or just one strong exposure. In today’s world, EMF protection is a must!
Associated EMF Health Problems
The following list represents diseases and health problems that are either a direct result of electromagnetic radiation poisoning or are closely associated with it. Keep in mind that all health issues will be affected to some degree by exposure to EMF radiation, whether electric, magnetic, wireless or ionizing radiation, since it weakens the immune system, stresses the body and damages healthy cells.
cancer
alzheimer’s
parkinson’s
fibromyalgia
chronic fatigue
daily headaches
brain cancer
lyme disease
asthma
heart problems
chest pain
insomnia
allergies
electrosensitivity (ES)/electromagnetic hypersensitivitiy (EHS)
multiple sclerosis (see Copper depletion by EMF)
high blood pressure
brain fog
ADD/ADHD
forgetfulness
digestive disorders
migraine headaches
brain tumors
leukemia – general
lymphoblastic leukemia
birth defects
miscarriages
stress
nausea
rheumatoid arthritis
lupus
fatigue
skin conditions – burning, rashes, pain
tinnitus and other audible noises
chronic pain
erratic pulse
weak immune system
Factors that Encourage the Dangers of Electromagnetic Radiation
Though every person’s cells are affected by electromagnetic radiation, each is affected at different ‘speeds’. Here are some of the factors that encourage a faster or stronger reaction to EMF exposures.
High stress levels
Low iodine levels
Heavy metal toxicity
Having lyme disease
Weakened immune system
High total EMF exposure (How full is your radiation ‘cup’?)
One or more single incident of very strong exposure
Having other pre-existing health problems
Niger Niamey
Micronesia, Palikir
Gabon Libreville
Macedonia, Skopje
Israel, Jerusalem
Paraguay Asuncion
Hungary Budapest
Kiribati, South Tarawa,
City of Rockdale Australia
Thousand Oaks California USA
Electromagnetic Field Meter
Click on any of the pictures below
to learn more
Anti-Radiation Air-tube Headset
Q-Link Products
EMF Harmonization Products
Tagged with are cell phones dangerous, are cell phones safe, cell phone, cell phone and health risk, cell phone brain cancer, Cell phone cancer, Cell Phone Dangers, cell phone dangers health, cell phone health, cell phone health effects, cell phone health hazards, cell phone health issues, cell phone health problems, cell phone health risk, cell phone health risks 2010, cell phone protection, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Radiation Danger, cell phone radiation facts, cell phone radiation health, cell phone radiation health risks, Cell phone radiation levels, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone radiation shield, cell phone radiation studies, Cell Phone Risks, cell phone tower dangers, cell phone tower health risks, cell phone towers health risks, cell phones and brain cancer, cell phones and cancer, cell phones and health, cell phones and health risks, cell phones brain cancer, Cell phones Cancer, cell phones cause cancer, cell phones health, cell phones radiation, Cell-Phones Health Risks, dangers of cell phones, health effects of cell phones, Health Risks Cell Phones, health risks of cell phone towers, health risks of cell phone use, health risks of cell phones, mobile phone health risk, mobile phone health risks, radiation cell phones, radiation from cell phones, risks of cell phones, safe cell phones, safest cell phones, wireless radiation
Whose Health is at Risk from EMF Radiation?
Posted on June 27, 2012 by liza sabado	— No Comments ↓
Lifebluetube Headset
Cell Phone Radiation Protection
To a degree, everyone who is exposed to EM radiation bears an increased health risk.
In fact it appears there is no safe level of electromagnetic radiation, either for low frequency (ELF & VLF) or Radio/Microwave fields.
For example, biological effects have been observed with low-frequency EMF (50/60 Hz) at levels as low as 0.2 mG, which is far lower than a typical urban dweller’s average exposure level.
But that doesn’t mean that we are all doomed to get sick. It means that we need to understand and manage our risk. The good news is that
Whatever your present EMF health risk category, reducing your electromagnetic radiation exposure will reduce your risk of becoming sick.
EMF Health damage – High risk group #1
Given the same EMF exposure, some people are more likely to suffer EMF health effects than others, because of their own biology:
Children are particularly at risk for several reasons. They are biologically more vulnerable – their skulls are thinner, their tissues – including their brains – are not fully developed.
Children will accumulate higher lifetime levels of radiation than older people because they have entered the world at a time when electromagnetic pollution levels are much higher than was the case when their parents were young.
Children are also at risk because they may not be able to control how much they use cell phones, how long they play on computers or watch TV and how close they sit to the screen.
Pregnant women should be especially conservative when evaluating their risk from electromagnetic fields because any cellular damage in a developing embryo may have magnified consequences for the child. They should avoid electromagnetic exposure as far as possible, by keeping away from high EMF sources and by minimising the duration of any electromagnetic exposure.
It has been demonstrated that pregnant women are at risk of miscarriage if they are subjected to high intensity EMFs during pregnancy. Miscarriage is an extreme (and tragic) response to a high level of EM radiation exposure. Lesser EMF levels may still damage the foetus while not causing an actual miscarriage.
Nutritionally Compromised Persons. As with all biological stresses, EMF-induced stress does not occur in isolation. The cumulative effect of electromagnetic stress combines with other biological stresses and lifestyle factors.
Nutritional status almost certainly has an effect, either for good or otherwise, on the amount of cellular damage caused by electromagnetic radiation and on the extent to which the body can repair it.
People who are already suffering from chronic degenerative conditions. If you are sick then your body is already using all its available energy to heal itself. It is unlikely to have much energy to spare for repairing the damage done by electromagnetic radiation.
Also consider that electromagnetic pollution may have been a contributing factor to your illness. If so, you may be dealing with an actual cause of your illness, not just its symptoms, when you reduce your exposure to electromagnetic pollution.
EMF Health damage – High risk group #2
These people are more likely to suffer EMF health effects than others, because of their heavy EMF exposure:
Workers are at risk if they work in close proximity to electrical machinery (e.g. computers including laptops, electric ovens, sewing machines).
People who work with very strong electromagnetic fields like welders, power line technicians, subway workers, cell phone network operating equipment technicians, electric train drivers and others like them, may be strongly at risk and should carefully follow all sound guidelines and safety procedures to reduce their electromagnetic exposure. Even so, they might incur less risk if they were able to change their trade.
Appliance Users. People who spend more than a few (ten?) minutes a day talking on a cell phone (pressed to their ear), or standing next to a microwave oven or other high-EMF electrical appliance (see EMF Table), especially if they do this every day for years.
People who live in a high-EMF Neighbourhood. Anyone who lives within range of electric power lines or cell phone towers for several (five?) years or more (and especially children). The range depends on the electromagnetic field strength and distribution pattern. Generally 400 metres or more seems to be a safe distance for most power lines. An EMF meter (gauss meter) can determine the effective EMF strength at different times of the day. (There is no authoritative safe level, but I would not want to live so close to an electromagnetic source that I was subjected to a constant electromagnetic field of 0.3 milligauss or more).
It’s worth noting that when the body is overwhelmed by too much electromagnetic radiation, health effects can occur many years later. For instance, exposure to power line EMF in childhood can predispose a person to certain types of cancer later in adult life, according to one study.
If you find yourself or your loved ones in one of these high risk groups (or even if you don’t!) please see our recommendations for reducing your electromagnetic exposure at EMF Protection.
Fiji Suva
Laos, Vientiane
Cyprus, Nicosia
Somalia, Mogadishu
Swaziland, Mbabane
Palmdale California USA
Guinea-Bissau, Bissau
Western Sahara, El Aaiun
Pakistan, Islamabad
Adelaide South Australia
Trifield Electromagnetic Field Meter
Click on any of the pictures below
to learn more
Anti-Radiation Air-tube Headset
Q-Link Products
EMF Harmonization Products
Tagged with are cell phones dangerous, are cell phones safe, cell phone, cell phone and health risk, cell phone brain cancer, Cell phone cancer, Cell Phone Dangers, cell phone dangers health, cell phone health, cell phone health effects, cell phone health hazards, cell phone health issues, cell phone health problems, cell phone health risk, cell phone health risks 2010, cell phone protection, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Radiation Danger, cell phone radiation facts, cell phone radiation health, cell phone radiation health risks, Cell phone radiation levels, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone radiation shield, cell phone radiation studies, Cell Phone Risks, cell phone tower dangers, cell phone tower health risks, cell phone towers health risks, cell phones and brain cancer, cell phones and cancer, cell phones and health, cell phones and health risks, cell phones brain cancer, Cell phones Cancer, cell phones cause cancer, cell phones health, cell phones radiation, Cell-Phones Health Risks, dangers of cell phones, health effects of cell phones, Health Risks Cell Phones, health risks of cell phone towers, health risks of cell phone use, health risks of cell phones, mobile phone health risk, mobile phone health risks, radiation cell phones, radiation from cell phones, risks of cell phones, safe cell phones, safest cell phones, wireless radiation
Heavy Cell Phone Use Linked to Depression, Sleep Problems in Young People
Posted on June 19, 2012 by liza sabado	— No Comments ↓
Qlink Pendant
Envi Headsets
Home Radiation Protection
Young people who heavily use cell phones and computers also complain more about sleep disturbances, stress and other mental health problems, according to researchers at the University of Gothenburg, Sweden.
“Public health advice should therefore include information on the healthy use of this technology,” says researcher Sara Thomée from the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg.
Doctoral student Thomée and her research team conducted four separate studies aimed at investigating the correlation between computers and cell phones, and their impact on the mental health of young adults.
Researchers gave questionnaires to 4,100 young adults (ages 20-24) and interviewed 32 heavy users of information and communication technology (ICT).
The findings reveal that extreme use of cell phones and computers may be linked to stress, sleep disorders and depressive symptoms. The researchers could not determine causation, so it may be that people with depression or sleep problems are simply more likely to reach out to others using mobile technology.
“We looked at the effects both quantitatively and qualitatively and followed up the volunteers a year on,” explains Thomée, who will present the results in her upcoming thesis.
“The conclusion is that intensive use of ICT can have an impact on mental health among young adults.”
The research reveals, for example, that heavy cell phone use is correlated with an increase in sleeping difficulties in men and an increase in depressive symptoms in both men and women.
“Those who find the constant accessibility via mobile phones to be stressful are most likely to report mental symptoms,” says Thomée.
Heavy computer use with no breaks also increases the risk of stress, sleeping problems and depressive symptoms in women, whereas men tend to develop more sleeping problems.
“Regularly using a computer late at night is associated not only with sleep disorders but also with stress and depressive symptoms in both men and women,” says Thomée.
A combination of both heavy computer use and heavy cell phone use strengthened the link. The researchers believe that public health ads should advise young people on how to use ICT in a healthy way.
“This means taking breaks, taking time to recover after intensive use, and putting limits on your availability,” Thomée explains.
Bulgaria Sofia
Tuvalu, Funafuti,
Guinea, Conakry
Vietnam, Hanoi
Haiti Port-au-Prince
Slovenia Ljubljana
Portland Oregon USA
Paraguay, Asuncion
Korea (North), Pyongyang
Melbourne Ararat Victoria Australia
Electromagnetic Field Meter
Click on any of the pictures below
to learn more
Anti-Radiation Air-tube Headset
Q-Link Products
EMF Harmonization Products
Tagged with are cell phones dangerous, are cell phones safe, cell phone, cell phone and health risk, cell phone brain cancer, Cell phone cancer, Cell Phone Dangers, cell phone dangers health, cell phone health, cell phone health effects, cell phone health hazards, cell phone health issues, cell phone health problems, cell phone health risk, cell phone health risks 2010, cell phone protection, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Radiation Danger, cell phone radiation facts, cell phone radiation health, cell phone radiation health risks, Cell phone radiation levels, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone radiation shield, cell phone radiation studies, Cell Phone Risks, cell phone tower dangers, cell phone tower health risks, cell phone towers health risks, cell phones and brain cancer, cell phones and cancer, cell phones and health, cell phones and health risks, cell phones brain cancer, Cell phones Cancer, cell phones cause cancer, cell phones health, cell phones radiation, Cell-Phones Health Risks, dangers of cell phones, health effects of cell phones, Health Risks Cell Phones, health risks of cell phone towers, health risks of cell phone use, health risks of cell phones, mobile phone health risk, mobile phone health risks, radiation cell phones, radiation from cell phones, risks of cell phones, safe cell phones, safest cell phones, wireless radiation
Intensive Mobile Phone Use Affects Young People’s Sleep
Posted on June 19, 2012 by liza sabado	— No Comments ↓
Lifebluetube Headset
Cell Phone Radiation Protection
Young people who heavily use cell phones and computers also complain more about sleep disturbances, stress and other mental health problems, according to researchers at the University of Gothenburg, Sweden.
“Public health advice should therefore include information on the healthy use of this technology,” says researcher Sara Thomée from the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg.
Doctoral student Thomée and her research team conducted four separate studies aimed at investigating the correlation between computers and cell phones, and their impact on the mental health of young adults.
Researchers gave questionnaires to 4,100 young adults (ages 20-24) and interviewed 32 heavy users of information and communication technology (ICT).
The findings reveal that extreme use of cell phones and computers may be linked to stress, sleep disorders and depressive symptoms. The researchers could not determine causation, so it may be that people with depression or sleep problems are simply more likely to reach out to others using mobile technology.
“We looked at the effects both quantitatively and qualitatively and followed up the volunteers a year on,” explains Thomée, who will present the results in her upcoming thesis.
“The conclusion is that intensive use of ICT can have an impact on mental health among young adults.”
The research reveals, for example, that heavy cell phone use is correlated with an increase in sleeping difficulties in men and an increase in depressive symptoms in both men and women.
“Those who find the constant accessibility via mobile phones to be stressful are most likely to report mental symptoms,” says Thomée.
Heavy computer use with no breaks also increases the risk of stress, sleeping problems and depressive symptoms in women, whereas men tend to develop more sleeping problems.
“Regularly using a computer late at night is associated not only with sleep disorders but also with stress and depressive symptoms in both men and women,” says Thomée.
A combination of both heavy computer use and heavy cell phone use strengthened the link. The researchers believe that public health ads should advise young people on how to use ICT in a healthy way.
“This means taking breaks, taking time to recover after intensive use, and putting limits on your availability,” Thomée explains.
Bulgaria Sofia
Tuvalu, Funafuti,
Guinea, Conakry
Vietnam, Hanoi
Haiti Port-au-Prince
Slovenia Ljubljana
Portland Oregon USA
Paraguay, Asuncion
Korea (North), Pyongyang
Melbourne Ararat Victoria AustraliaUkraine, Kiev
Trifield Electromagnetic Field Meter
Click on any of the pictures below
to learn more
Anti-Radiation Air-tube Headset
Q-Link Products
EMF Harmonization Products
Tagged with are cell phones dangerous, are cell phones safe, cell phone, cell phone and health risk, cell phone brain cancer, Cell phone cancer, Cell Phone Dangers, cell phone dangers health, cell phone health, cell phone health effects, cell phone health hazards, cell phone health issues, cell phone health problems, cell phone health risk, cell phone health risks 2010, cell phone protection, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Radiation Danger, cell phone radiation facts, cell phone radiation health, cell phone radiation health risks, Cell phone radiation levels, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone radiation shield, cell phone radiation studies, Cell Phone Risks, cell phone tower dangers, cell phone tower health risks, cell phone towers health risks, cell phones and brain cancer, cell phones and cancer, cell phones and health, cell phones and health risks, cell phones brain cancer, Cell phones Cancer, cell phones cause cancer, cell phones health, cell phones radiation, Cell-Phones Health Risks, dangers of cell phones, health effects of cell phones, Health Risks Cell Phones, health risks of cell phone towers, health risks of cell phone use, health risks of cell phones, mobile phone health risk, mobile phone health risks, radiation cell phones, radiation from cell phones, risks of cell phones, safe cell phones, safest cell phones, wireless radiation
Posts navigation
← Older posts
Pages
ACOUSTIC NEUROMAS
BIOPRO CELL CHIP HOME HARMONIZER
BIOPRO CELL CHIP PREOTECTION
CANCER PROTECTION
CELL PHONE HAZARDS
CELL PHONE RADIATION
CELL PHONES PROTECTION
CELL TOWER DANGERS
CELL TOWER HEALTH
CELL TOWER PROTECTION
CELL TOWER SAFETY
ELECTRICAL HYPERSENSITIVITY
ELECTRICAL SENSITIVITIES
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION PROTECTION
EMF PROTECTION DEVICES
HEALTH RISKS
HYPERSENSITIVITY SYMPTOMS
Q LINK PENDANT
Q-LINK BRACELET GOLF
Q-LINK PENDANT AND CELL PHONE RADIATION PROTECTION
Q-LINKS PENDANT PROTECTION
QLINK PENDANT
QLINK PENDANT EMF PROTECTION
QLINK PENDANT REVIEWS
WIFI RADIATION PROTECTION
Recent Posts
Fukishima Plutonium Contamination Into Pacific is Greatest Threat of All
Explosion and Blaze at the US Nuclear Plant Protected Area in Arkansas
Unknown Toxic Algae Happening on California Coast Killing Squids and Other Animals
Cell Phone Radiation Damages Sperm, Studies Show
Should Pregnant Women Ditch SSRIs, Microwaves and Cellphones?
Blogroll
Cell Phone Radiation Ebook
EMF Facts
Hyperbaric Chambers and Heavy Metal Detox Products
Internet Marketing / Web Design / Intenet Video
Microwave News
June 2012
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« May Jul »
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30
Archives
December 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
Tags
air-tube headset are cordless phones dangerous dangers bluetooth emf emissions blue tooth radiation bluetube headset Cell-Phones Health Risks cell phone cell phone air-tube headset cell phone antenna Cell phone cancer Cell phone danger Cell Phone Dangers cell phone protection cell phone radiation Cell Phone Radiation Danger cell phone radiation protection cell phones cell phone tower radiation cell phone towers cell sites cell tower cell tower lease cell tower leases cell tower location cell tower locations cell tower locator cell tower radiation cell towers cellular phones cellular towers emf EMF Exposure emf protection EMF Protection Devices emf radiation Microwave radiation Microwaves mobile phone mobile phone radiation radiation cancer radiation protection radiation safe airtube headset telecommunication towers Wireless devices wireless radiation
© 2019 Cell Phone Radiation News
Responsive II powered by WordPress
↑