10 Disease Theories That Were Spectacularly Wrong - Reshape By Patrick
March 9, 2019
Medical Doctor Responds to New York Times Article Attacking Vaccine Skeptics
This Morning on Sunday vs Sunday Brunch: who triumphed? A minute-by-minute review of the weekend shows
10 Uplifting Stories To Get You Through The Week (1/20/19)
10 Sexually Transmitted Infections Found In Animals
10 Offbeat Stories You Might Have Missed This Week (1/19/19)
10 Things Believed To Exist (That Really Don’t)
Fitness • health
10 Disease Theories That Were Spectacularly Wrong
4 months ago
16 Min Read
Admin
Share This!
Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
Pinterest
LinkedIn
It was John Dewey who as soon as stated, “Every great advance in science has issued from a new audacity of imagination.” It’s this “audacity of imagination” that led to the Moon touchdown, yielded antibiotics to fight lethal illnesses, and put a pc in each residence.
Trendy drugs has superior significantly in current occasions, and our understanding of pathology has by no means been higher. Nevertheless, historical past exhibits that errors are all too typically made within the pursuit of scientific achievement.
When it got here to illness, even a number of the most revered thinkers acquired it spectacularly improper. As you may anticipate, such theories led to some moderately baffling remedies. From lobotomies to bloodletting, scientists all through the ages have provided some pretty crackpot therapies.
The extra you understand concerning the historical past of drugs, the extra you query the legitimacy of present theories. What else have we gotten incorrect? What extra is there to find? Solely time will inform.
Contents
1 10 Feminine Hysteria
2 9 Trepanning And Evil Spirits
3 eight The Elixir Of Life
4 7 Miasma Concept
5 6 Tooth-worm
6 5 Ulcers And Stress
7 four Corpse Drugs
8 three The 4 Humors
9 2 Urine Remedy
10 1 Powder Of Sympathy
Contents
1 10 Feminine Hysteria
2 9 Trepanning And Evil Spirits
3 eight The Elixir Of Life
4 7 Miasma Concept
5 6 Tooth-worm
6 5 Ulcers And Stress
7 four Corpse Drugs
8 three The 4 Humors
9 2 Urine Remedy
10 1 Powder Of Sympathy
10 Feminine Hysteria
Scientists as soon as used pseudoscience as a way of correcting hysteria in ladies. The idea dates again to historic Egypt. Many nice thinkers imagined that hysteria was caused by the place of the uterus (aka “the wandering womb”).
The phrase “hysteria” is derived from the Latin hystericus (“of the womb”). Smelly substances have been typically positioned close to the vagina to right the issue. The traditional Greek doctor Aretaeus thought the womb was repelled and interested in totally different fragrances. The scent of the substance used trusted whether or not the uterus was excessive or low.
The medical fraternity’s understanding of hysteria turned stranger nonetheless. Based on Greek mythology, the priest Melampus was stated to have rid Argo’s virgins of their unusual conduct. The daughters of King Proetus went mad and hallucinated that they have been wandering cows. Melampus cured the ladies with roots of the flower hellebore and instructed them to make like to virile males.
And so the notion of a “melancholy uterus” got here to cross. Outstanding thinkers, like Plato and Hippocrates, believed the feminine uterus had its personal moods. Lack of intercourse and copy have been thought to make the uterus unhappy. An sad uterus, argued Hippocrates, was finally brought on by a buildup of toxic humors. These humors then migrated to different elements of the physique and prompted illness. Comparable theories continued from historic Rome onward.[1]
In line with US scholar Rachel Maines, theories surrounding hysteria led to the invention of the vibrator. Within the 19th century, docs have been tasked with pleasuring ladies right into a state of normality. It’s stated that docs, tired of giving guide hand jobs, handed the duty on to midwives.
The electromechanical vibrator was initially invented within the late 1800s to therapeutic massage muscle tissues. Medical docs determined it will be faster to make use of the gadget to provide ladies “hysterical paroxysms” (i.e., orgasms). Remedy occasions have been slashed from round an hour to only 10 minutes.
9 Trepanning And Evil Spirits
At the moment, the follow of drilling a gap in a single’s head to deal with psychological well being issues is a troublesome promote. However that was not all the time the case. From Neolithic occasions to historic Greece, quite a few civilizations used a process referred to as trepanation to fight illness. Trepanation includes making a gap within the human cranium to treatment some perceived ailment.
Throughout Paleolithic occasions, primitive tribes used trepanation to expel evil spirits from the physique. In actuality, the signs witnessed in all probability stemmed from psychological sickness. Cranium fragments from the operation have been extremely wanted. Shamans would trend amulets from the fragments within the hopes of keeping off demonic possession.
The warring tribes of South America put the process to barely higher use. They used trepanation to deal with traumatic head accidents. At the moment, trendy surgeons use a refined type of trepanation to alleviate intracranial strain. So maybe there was some technique to their insanity.
Even now, a number of courageous souls use trepanning methods to change the circulate of blood and cerebrospinal fluid of their heads. (N.B.: Don’t do this at residence until you loved the ending to One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest.)
Amanda Feilding, founding father of the Beckley Basis, carried out self-trepanation within the early 1970s. She believes that “stagnant pools” of poisons contribute to illnesses like Alzheimer’s. Feilding ran for parliament within the UK twice on a platform of offering “Trepanation for the National Health.” She acquired few votes.[2]
eight The Elixir Of Life
They are saying two issues are sure in life: dying and taxes. However it appears that evidently the elites of historic China have been obsessive about avoiding the previous. In a bid to seek out the elusive “elixir of life,” they put their religion in alchemists. Over 2,000 years in the past, the very first emperor of unified China, Qin Shi Huang, ordered his males to discover a potion that might make him immortal.[3]
In what can solely be described as an epic miscalculation, alchemists gave the emperor his elixir: mercury. As we now know, mercury solely serves to convey concerning the recipient’s speedy demise. Historians consider the emperor was poisoned after consuming an unhealthy dose of mercury sulfide. He died on the not-so-immortal age of 49. Regardless of this apparent failure, alchemists continued their work. Lots of them died toiling over their elixirs.
Earlier than his passing, Qin Shi Huang ordered the creation of his Terracotta Military. These inanimate warriors have been positioned within the emperor’s monumental burial chamber to guard him within the afterlife. Paradoxically, archaeologists assume Qin Shi Huang’s tomb is surrounded by a river of mercury.
Qin Shi Huang was not the one emperor to succumb to the temptation of quicksilver. Emperor Xuanzong of Tang was given an elixir derived from a mercury ore (cinnabar). He developed basic signs of mercury poisoning, together with itching, muscle weak spot, and paranoia.
The alchemists argued that these signs have been a mere blip on the street to immortality. In fact, the emperor died shortly after. Various Xuanzong’s predecessors died taking comparable elixirs, together with emperors Muzong and Wuzong. Emperor Muzong suspected one thing was up, so he made his alchemists eat their very own toxic concoctions. Muzong’s knowledge didn’t final lengthy. He, too, turned obsessive about elixirs and poisoned himself.
7 Miasma Concept
The miasma principle was proposed to elucidate the unfold of illness. Earlier than the germ concept got here to cross, scientists thought that atmospheric impurities (“miasmata”) have been the first explanation for illness. Plague docs have been illustrative of this concept in motion. These scary characters wore beak-shaped masks that have been designed to maintain foul-smelling miasmata away. The masks have been full of fragrant herbs to cease docs from inhaling “bad air.”
In Victorian England, Edwin Chadwick put ahead the miasma concept to elucidate London’s cholera epidemics. In the meantime, Florence Nightingale argued that outbreaks of measles, smallpox, and scarlet fever have been brought on by constructing homes too near smelly drains.
An anesthetist referred to as John Snow refuted the miasma principle. Snow stated that cholera was transmitted by way of polluted water, not dangerous air. This was a controversial speculation for the time.[4]
Snow noticed that sure elements of London have been extra more likely to expertise cholera outbreaks than others. He realized that a few of the native water corporations filtered and purified their water, whereas others didn’t. All the businesses took their water from the Thames—a swirling cesspit of refuse, effluent, and basic despair. (Some issues by no means change.)
Areas with excessive ranges of cholera typically acquired unpurified water from particularly soiled elements of the Thames. Snow additionally found a hyperlink between the unfold of waterborne illnesses and the town’s insufficient sewage system. One main outbreak was brought on by a cholera-riddled diaper that had been dumped in a leaky cesspit. The illness took maintain when water from the cesspit contaminated a close-by water pump.
In 1861, Louis Pasteur’s germ concept proved that Snow was right. The invention of the bacterium Vibrio cholerae was the ultimate piece of the puzzle. The miasma concept, which dated again to the time of Hippocrates, was lastly put out to pasture.
6 Tooth-worm
Dental caries are not any joke. This was very true in Babylonian occasions when the Legend of the Tooth-worm existed. Thereafter, numerous historic civilizations thought that wriggly worms have been answerable for cavity-related ache.
The idea goes that a nasty worm would bury itself within the tooth. Its wild actions inflicted nice ache on the sufferer. Solely as soon as the worm drained and ceased its thrashing would the ache subside. Some civilizations thought that the creature was truly a demon taking over the guise of a worm.
Fumigations and extractions have been well-liked remedies for tooth-worm. Scribonius Largus, the doctor to the Roman emperor Claudius, carried out fumigations with henbane seeds. It was stated that the resultant fumes would repulse the pest. Through the 17th century, quite a lot of charlatans conned sufferers into considering that they had tooth-worm. The practitioners would solely fake to extract worms. In actuality, they have been merely eradicating items of lute string.[5]
Roman thinker Pliny the Elder is value a quick point out. Pliny’s remedy for toothache concerned capturing a frog by moonlight, spitting in its mouth, and saying, “Frog, go, and take my toothache with thee!”
In 1728, Pierre Fauchard revealed a two-volume e-book, The Surgical Dentist. Described because the “father of modern dentistry,” Fauchard debunked the idea of tooth-worm and advisable that sufferers scale back their sugar consumption.
5 Ulcers And Stress
Till just lately, practitioners and researchers have been united of their perception that ulcers have been brought on by stress and extra abdomen acid. Scientists who have been skeptical of this entrenched concept have been the topic of ridicule.
So, in 1984, Barry Marshall got down to make some extent. The Australian gastroenterologist was satisfied that ulcers have been the results of a bacterium referred to as Helicobacter pylori. He was so satisfied that he began experimenting on himself.
His colleague cooked up a scrumptious broth of H. pylori, which Marshall then drank. Now a depressing vomit-sprinkler, Marshall was recognized with acute gastritis. He cured himself with a easy course of antibiotics. The idea behind stress-induced ulcers was starting to crumble.[6]
Nevertheless, Marshall and his colleagues confronted appreciable pushback from the medical-industrial complicated. Various massive drug corporations have been fearful that antibiotics would make their merchandise redundant. “Because the makers of H2 blockers funded much of the ulcer research at the time, all they had to do was ignore the Helicobacter discovery,” defined Marshall.
For the longest time, the concept micro organism might survive in such an acidic surroundings was laughable. However scientists quickly found that Helicobacter might successfully neutralize the acid round it.
Researchers now assume that 80 % of gastric ulcers are brought on by the bacterium. Barry Marshall and colleague Robin Warren gained a Nobel Prize for proving their friends completely mistaken.
four Corpse Drugs
Corpse drugs was the follow of utilizing human corpses to deal with sickness. The a part of the physique consumed was dependent upon the ailment. “Like cures like,” argued the homeopaths. Subsequently, nosebleeds and epilepsy have been typically handled with bits of cranium, whereas superficial wounds have been wrapped in fat-soaked bandages.
Europe’s wealthy and well-known have been pigging out on human our bodies through the 16th and 17th centuries. The continent was rife with cannibalistic gravediggers on the lookout for a fast buck. Egyptian tombs have been looted of their mummified inhabitants and used to deal with bruises and bleeds.
Even royalty was at it. England’s King Charles II was a fan of a bit of alcohol and floor cranium (aka “The King’s Drops”). The king would tootle off to his personal laboratory and brew up a batch himself.[7]
One other type of corpse drugs was seen in 19th-century Denmark. Public executions have been attended by blood-lusting spectators, lots of whom introduced their very own cups.
In 1823, Hans Christian Andersen described witnessing a person feed the blood of an executed felon to a toddler. The blood was used as a remedy for epilepsy. Blood was known as the “elixir of life” all through the Center Ages (marginally higher than mercury), and virgin blood was used to remedy leprosy.
This “medical vampirism” dates again to historic Rome. Quite a few civilizations thought that human blood carried the soul. Consuming blood, they theorized, might stave off sickness and afford new power. It was this mystical perception that compelled the Romans to drink the blood of gladiators killed within the area.
three The 4 Humors
Information of anatomy and drugs soared beneath the physicians of historic Greece. Dissections and vivisections offered docs with recent perception into the physique’s internal workings.
Galen discovered that the mind managed motion by way of nerves. Herophilus distinguished between veins and arteries. Numerous outstanding philosophers drew a connection between illness and the setting. And a organic set off of illness changed the supernatural. Nevertheless, one deeply flawed principle went uncontested: the 4 humors.
Historic Greek drugs was closely influenced by Hippocrates. His principle on humoralism supposed that the physique was made up of 4 fluids: blood, phlegm, black bile, and yellow bile. An imbalance in these fluids, or humors, would result in illness. The 4 humors have been additionally related to a person’s psychological state. For instance, a affected person was melancholic if he had an excessive amount of black bile.[8]
However the place did the thought of those humors come from?
Properly, the traditional Greeks have been possible pouring blood samples into glass containers and leaving them to coagulate. After a while, this pattern would separate into 4 distinct layers: purple, white, black, and yellow. That is maybe what they regarded as humors.
Nevertheless, the Greeks might have taken inspiration from the 4 parts: earth, air, hearth, and water. It was additionally extensively accepted that these humors have been one way or the other related to the 4 seasons and planetary alignment.
Modifications to eating regimen and way of life have been typically beneficial to redress the stability. The Greek doctor Galen was a proponent of bloodletting to eliminate extra blood—what he thought-about to be the dominant humor.
Bloodletting continued beneath the barber-surgeons of medieval Europe who thought the apply might remedy smallpox and epilepsy. Humoralism continued all through the West for hundreds of years. Historians suspect that George Washington’s religion in bloodletting might have contributed to his demise in 1799.
2 Urine Remedy
Merely put, urine remedy includes utilizing urine to fight illness. These in help of the follow extol its obvious therapeutic qualities. Books about urine remedy wax lyrical concerning the “elixir of life,” “the golden fountain,” and “liquid gold.” Whereas most certified docs view urine as a waste product, urine connoisseurs declare that the liquid is a distilled product of the blood (aka “gold of the blood”).
Urine has been used all through historical past with alarming frequency. Thomas Vicary, Henry VIII’s surgeon, suggested cleansing battle wounds with urine. The 17th-century chemist Robert Boyle instructed sufferers to drink “a moderate draught of their own urine” within the morning. On the advice of George Thomson, urine was used to fight the lethal bacterium chargeable for the Nice Plague.[9]
A fast perusal of the Web reveals that urine remedy is one thing individuals nonetheless do at the moment. A whole lot of hundreds of individuals in China are stated to drink urine. A shocking variety of athletes have additionally resorted to guzzling down their very own juices, together with MMA fighter Luke Cummo and boxer Juan Manuel Marquez.
Madonna famously advised David Letterman that urine was a remedy for athlete’s foot. Some determined teenagers have taken to slapping urine on their pustulous faces, whereas others are brewing up their very own urine-based tooth whiteners.
For apparent causes, there stays little analysis on many forms of urine remedy. However docs are adamant that consuming pee is a nasty concept. The apply has no well being advantages and may result in dehydration. Cleansing your wounds with urine can also be a nasty concept. New analysis exhibits that urine isn’t sterile, as was as soon as considered the case.
1 Powder Of Sympathy
Sir Kenelm Digby was a person of science, philosophy, and purpose. However, like lots of his 17th-century contemporaries, Digby had a eager curiosity in alchemy and astrology. The Englishman got here up with the unusual notion that making use of remedies to the weapon that brought about an damage would heal the wound itself.
This miracle remedy was referred to as the “powder of sympathy.” Digby’s principle was delivered to prime teachers on the College of Montpellier. The speech lasted two hours and boasted of endorsements from King James.
Digby’s perception within the remedy got here after experimenting on his pal James Howell. The author was wounded whereas making an attempt to cease a duel in England. On this occasion, the powder of sympathy was examined on Howell’s blood-soaked bandage.
The bandage was then eliminated and stored separate from the wound. The remedy reportedly gave Howell “a pleasing sense of freshnesse” and a brand new lease on life. Nevertheless, right now’s scientists know higher. His restoration was probably the results of luck and the placebo impact.
In accordance with Digby, a Carmelite monk taught him the weapon salve. The potion was imagined to work on the idea of “sympathetic magic.” Proponents argued that a weapon would type some sort of connection to the human physique after drawing blood. Digby and his colleagues believed that atoms of the lotion have been interested in the wound by way of some type of magnetism.
The powder of sympathy garnered appreciable consideration. There have been 29 editions of Digby’s e-book, A Late Discourse . . . Touching the Remedy of Wounds by the Powder of Sympathy. The potion was bought in lots of apothecaries all through 17th-century Europe. Even the likes of John Locke and Thomas Sydenham lauded the weird remedy.
Digby’s love for the supernatural didn’t finish there. He additionally had a eager curiosity in palingenesis, a type of “biological rebirth.” He hoped that the method would resurrect life from the crystallized ashes of crops and animals.
Some students prompt that Digby’s makes an attempt at resurrection have been associated to an obsession he had together with his lifeless spouse, Venetia. Rumor circulated that Digby had by accident killed Venetia by giving her giant portions of “viper wine.”[10]
You may also like
fake news • Fitness • Headline • Medicine Watch • New York Times
Medical Doctor Responds to New York Times Article Attacking Vaccine Skeptics
2 months ago
Culture • Fitness • Sunday Brunch • Television • This Morning
This Morning on Sunday vs Sunday Brunch: who triumphed? A minute-by-minute review of the weekend shows
2 months ago
Fitness • Our World
10 Uplifting Stories To Get You Through The Week (1/20/19)
2 months ago
About the author
View All Posts
Admin
The 25 Best Everyday Carry Gifts
10 Families Who Lived A Real ‘Haunting Of Hill House’
Share This!
Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Recent Posts
Medical Doctor Responds to New York Times Article Attacking Vaccine Skeptics
This Morning on Sunday vs Sunday Brunch: who triumphed? A minute-by-minute review of the weekend shows
10 Uplifting Stories To Get You Through The Week (1/20/19)
10 Sexually Transmitted Infections Found In Animals
10 Offbeat Stories You Might Have Missed This Week (1/19/19)
Categories
Categories Select Category #Liift4Life #metoo 12 Lessons Failure Taught Me 12 month transformation 12 month transformation month 3 2018 25 Abs Review 30" fridge 50 laws of power 50th law book 5G 5G satellites 6 Shooter Fidget Spinner 7 steps to a happier family 80/20 rule 90 day challenge Abbotsford abdominal pain Accessories accountability acid reflux ACIP acne acute flaccid myelitis ADD ADHD adults Advanced High Intensity adverse events following immunization Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices AEFI AFC Bournemouth Age Agility Markers aging Aging Gracefully Agrimony Airports Alastair Campbell Alcohol Alexis Sanchez Allergen allergies Allergies/Intolerances aloe vera Alternative Health alzheimer’s disease Amandi American Cancer Society Americas Travel androgenetic alopecia andrographis andrographis paniculata anemia Animal Welfare Animals Announcement anrioxidants Anthony Martial anti-aging Anti-Aging and Diet anti-cancer anti-fungal anti-inflammatory antibacterial antifungal antimicrobial antioxidant antioxidants anxiety Anxiety Disorders Apparel appetizers Apple Apple Cider apple cider vinegar apple watch appliance appliance delivery appliances appreciation Apps Architecture argan oil arganine arizona Armistice Armistice Day Armored Vechiels arthritis Articles Artificial Intelligence Arts ASFA aspirin Athletes Attorney General Aurora Chicago Lakeshore Hospital Australia Rugby Union autoimmune disease Automotive Autumn Autumn Internationals Average Price avocado oil AZ B4 LIIFT4 Chest Back Circuit Review B4 LIIFT4 Full Body HIIT Review B4 LIIFT4 Legs LIIFT 50/50 B4 LIIFT4 Shoulder Arms LIIFT Intervals Review B5 back pain back stretch back to school Backpacks Bacon Bacopa Monnieri Bag Rating – Decent Bags baking baking soda balance ball rolling Ballet balloon flower banded glute bridges baptist church Barbara Loe Fisher barcelona Barnsley FC Bartender basil essential oil basil oil Battery BBC BCAA be authentic be kind Beachbody Beachbody on Demand Review bearizona Beauty Beenie Man beer ben & Jerry’s beneficially selfish Benefit Precisely My Brow No 2 Benefit Precisely My Brow No 3 benefits benefits of drinking water Beres Hammond bergamot essential oil bergamot mint essential oil bergamot oil beta-blockers BIA Technology Big Brother birch oil Black Friday Black Friday Deals black pepper oil black spruce essential oil black tea blackheads bladderwrack blended family blessed thistle bloating Blog Blood blood pressure blood sugar Blue Moon blue yarrow essential oil BMI Calculator Bob Andy Body Beast Shaun Week Hybrid Body Composition Body Fat Body Mass Index body recompositioning body recompositioning 101 Body Water body weight bombas sock bone health bone loss Book Reviews Books Boots Borrelia burgdorferi Bose SoundSport In-Ear Headphones boss babe bossbabe box handstand push ups BPA BPS brain fog brain health Brand Country – USA Brand State – California Bread Breakfast breakfast ideas breakfast in bed breast cancer Brexit Brexit Deal Bright Family Brine bronchitis bronzer powder Brookstone Foot Massager brown seaweed bruises bucket list Building Muscle business business woman busy girl workout butcher box butter butyric acid Buyer’s Guides Cakes calendar calf rolls Callum Wilson calluses calorie cycling Camo Camouflage Camp Cutlery Camping Camping Gear cancer CAPTA caramel Caramel Cookie Fix caraway seed essential oil carb cycling Carbs cardio focus Cardon Children’s Hospital carnitine carnivore diet carpal tunnel syndrome Carry-On Bags Cars Cases Cash castor oil cat’s claw Cayenne Pepper CDC cedarwood oil cell phones Cervarix chair dips chair squats Chamomile Essential Oil chamomile oil Champions League Championship Channel 4 charging checklist Checklist Project cheesecake cherry angioma chessboard Chest Back Circuit Review Chicken chickweed child abuse specialist Child Abuse Specialists child molestation child protection child sex trafficking childhood arthritis Children chocolate chocolate chip cholesterol Chris Blackwell Chris Downing Chris Downing Fitness chris powell Christmas Christmas 2018 Christmas Gift Guide Christmas Gifts Christmas TV Chronixx cider cinnamon oil clary sage oil Classic Cars Cleanse for Life Climbing closing up clove essential oil clove oil Club Monaco Shave Kit Coats cochrane collaboration group Cochrane Review cocktail party food cocktail party planning tips Cocktails cocktails & spirits Cocktails + Spirits Coconut Health coconut oil coffee colds Columnists Comedy Comment commitment common colds communicate openly communication comparing comparison comparison game comparisons Conditions congestion Congressman Bill Posey Connie Reguli Constipation Consumer cookies Cooking Cooks coriander seed essential oil Cornbread corns Corporate Wellness Corvelva cough remedy coughs coupon book CPS cranberries cravings Created4Health Creepy Cricket Crime Crohn’s Disease cruise Cuisinart Snow Cone Maker Culinary Travel Culture cupcake wars cupcakes curcumin Custom Cars Cycling cypress oil dad daily and weekly goals daily makeup routine daily makeup routine for busy moms daily makeup routine for busy women daisies daisy flower Dan Burton dandruff Daniel Agger Daniel Sturridge Danny Rose Danny Wilson date night Daydream Believers Days Out DBG DCS Deals of the Week decompress deep tissue massage Denim Denmark depression Derek desert botanical gardens Destinations detox Devani Devices diabetes Diabetes Diet diarrhea Diet Diet Mythology Diet Plans Dig Deep Review digestion digestive health digital calendar dill essential oil diners drive-ins and dives dips dirty electricity disney Distributer Country – USA Distributer State – California diuretic Dive Watches diy gifts dizziness doctors Dog Breeds Dogs DOJ report double standards DPT Dr. Anant Phadke dr. david ayoub Dr. Jacob Puliyel Dr. Michael Holick Dr. Paul Offit Dr. Scott Gottlieb Dr. Stig Gerdes Drag Race dream journal Dreams dressing dressings Drink drink water Dry Brine Dry Brined DTaP due process of law dyspepsia ear infection remedies East Lake Checklist east lake street easy breakfast Eat Better eat slowly Economy eczema EDC Eddie Howe Eddie Jones egypt elder abuse electronic calendar Electronics elefun Emergency Services emf Emoji Snacks Boxer Briefs empty bucket endometriosis energy England Football England Rugby Union enteroviruses Entertainment essential oil Essential Oils essential oils for blackheads essential oils for constipation essential oils for corns essential oils for earache essential oils for heartburn essential oils for hypothyroidism essential oils for indigestion essential oils for lyme disease essential oils for moles essential oils for nightmares essential oils for plantar fasciitis essential oils for restless leg syndrome essential oils for sciatica essential oils for skin tags essential oils for tinnitus essential oils for vertigo estafiate Ethical eucalyptus oil Europe Travel European Union Events Everyday Carry Everything on the Blog excuses exercise expectorant eye health Facts failure fake news fall falling false evidence appearing real Family family dinner Family Fitness Family Life family motto family outdoor activities family summer activities Family Time family time our 12 month transformation family traditions family workouts farewell Fashion Father’s Day father’s day gift guide father’s day gifts father’s day tribute father’s day tribute to our dads Father’s Day Tribute to Our Dads + Ways to Make Them King for the Day fatigue Favorite Finds FCO FDA Fear Featured Featured Nutrition Features Feeling Healthier female health Feminism fennel oil fertility fever fevers fiber fibromyalgia fill your empty bucket Film find your go time find your passion find your tribe finger foods First World War Fish fish oil Fitness fitness programs fitness tips Fiumicino flatulence flexibility flour flu shot FluMist foam rolling Food Food & Drink Food And Drink food guidelines food network Food Travel Foods foods for menopause foot and mouth disease foot massage Football Football Manager 2019 Football Transfers Fordyce Spots Foster parents Fostering frankincense frankincense essential oil frankincense oil Fraud free weights Frodsham From Scratch Fruit Fulham FC Full Body HIIT Review Full Body LIIFT 50/50 Review fun Furniture GABA Gadgets gain muscle galangal Games Gaming gardasil garlic garlic oil Garth Marenghi’s Darkplace Gear Gender Pay Gap General Interest geranium oil German chamomile essential oil german chjamomile oil get outside ghee Gift Guide Gift Guides Gift Ideas ginger ginger essential oil ginger oil girl boss Giveaway GlaxoSmithKline Glazed glutathione glute rolls Gluten Free go to the park goal setting Goals goodbye Gordon Brown GPS grandpa gratitude Gravy green tea grilling grow your business growth Gut Health Gym Hacking hair care Hair Health hair loss Halloween hamstring rolls hand happy father’s day Harry Winks have fun together HDL head lice Headline health Health & Wellness health around electronics Health Benefits Health Canada health issues Healthy healthy appetizers Healthy Articles healthy bones healthy breakfast healthy breakfast recipes healthy brunch recipes healthy eating Healthy Eating 101 healthy fats Healthy Habits healthy life healthy living heart health heartburn Heavy Table Heidi Powell helfer society helichrysum oil hemp herbal tea Herbs hexavalent vaccines hibiscus tea High Intensity Training hike Hiking Himalayan History Holiday Holiday Appetizers holiday breakfast and brunch recipes Holidays Home Home And Gardens Home and Style home fitness programs Homemade Homes and gardens honey Honours horehound hormonal health hormones Horror Hospitals Host the Toast hotel room hotel room workout houston How do I Get Ripped How to how to become a boss babe how to become a boss babe rule one how to eat healthy how to get the body you’ve always wanted How to Get the Body You’ve Always Wanted Body Recompositioning 101 how to lose weight how to work out when you’re busy HPV vaccine HPV Vaccine Injury Humans Hunting hydration hypercholesterolemia hyperpigmentation hypertension IBS ibuys ibuys baby and child ibuys Christmas ibuys fashion and beauty ibuys food and drink ibuys home and garden ibuys sports and fitness ibuys tech ibuys travel and outdoor ice cream Iceland idea journal ikea Illinois Illinois Department of Children and Family Services immune function immune health Immune System immune system boost immune system health importance of family In Depth InBody Blog india indiana indigestion Infanrix Hexa infection inflammatory bowel disease influenza vaccine Ingredient Rating – Very Good Inheritance Injury injury prevention Inositol Insane Basics Review Insane Weights Review insanity comparison insanity results insomnia Inspiration integrity Interior Design Intermittent Fasting International Cuisine International Tribunal for Natural Justice Interviews iodine ios Iowa IPA Ipad IPad Mini IPad Pro Iphone IPhone Review IPhone Xs Max IPhone XS Max Review Is It Unhealthy Isagenix 30-Day System Isagenix Solutions Isagenix Systems IsaLean Shake IT band rolls it’s all about family Italian italy Iweekend Jackets Jacob Rees-Mogg Jamaican Comedian Jamaican Music Jamal Khashoggi Japan japanese food jasmine jasmine tea Jason Roberts Jennifer Colliau Jennifer Winn Jesse Questel Jets Jewel-Osco Jobs Joe’s Farm Grill Joel Freeman Joel Freeman Review joint pain jojoba oil Jokes Jose Mourinho José Peralta journaling Juan Mata Judge Adam Sauer Judge Mike Schneider juicy juniper berries juniper berry oil Junk Food Reviews just say no kartchner caverns Katherine Ryan kava keep your commitments Kenedy ketogenic diet kidney detox kidney infection Kids kids breakfast kindness kinetic Sand king for a day kitchen Kitchen Kapers knack Knack – Dad’s cooking set Knack – Pancake Breakfast Set Knife Knives l carnitine benefits Labour Party lactation Lake Coffee Lake Street Laptops lavender lavender essential oil lavender oil LDL leaky gut leaky gut causes leaky gut solutions leaky gut symptoms Leather lecithin Leeds United FC Legs LIIFT 50/50 Review lemon lemon essential oil lemon oil lemongrass oil LG LG Aristo LG K20 licorice root life lessons Lifestyle lifting weights makes you bulky light appetizers Liift for Life LIIFT Legs LIIFT 50/50 Review Liift4 LIIFT4 Back Biceps Circuit Review LIIFT4 Back Biceps LIIFT 50/50 Review LIIFT4 Chest Triceps Circuit Review LIIFT4 Chest Triceps LIIFT 50/50 Review LIIFT4 Heart Rate LIIFT4 heart rate analysis LIIFT4 Legs HIIT Review Liift4 Review LIIFT4 Roll and Recover Review LIIFT4 Shoulders LIIFT Intervals Review LIIFT4 Stretch Review lilac essential oil Lisa Belanger litsea essential oil liver detox liver health Liverpool FC living Long Reads Longfellow Grill Loquat leaves Lorenzo Insigne lose fat lose fat and gain muscle Lose Weight louisiana love notes Low Carb Diets low iq lower back rolls lower body exercises Luggage lunch box notes Luxury lymphatic system health Mac 150S Mac False Lashes Mac Fix Mac Give Me Some Sun Mac Medium Deep Mac’s All That Glitters Mac’s Petal Power Mac’s Cork Mac’s Melba Mac’s Painterly Paint Pot Mac182S Mac242S maca maca amino acids maca energy maca health benefits maca powder maca root magnesium Main Course make time for each other Make-up Makeup makeup routine making time to work out male hormones Malnutrition Mammal Mammograms Man Crates Manchester Manchester City FC Manchester United FC mandarin essentilal oil mandatory flu shot mandatory vaccines Manufactured Crisis Marcelo Bielsa Mariah Carey Mariano’s – Kroger Marianos Marjoram Essential Oil marjoram oil Marley Martial Arts Marvin Siegel Mary Holland massachusetts massage massage ball massage ball 101 massage ball 101 the Hows and Whys + Some Exercises massage ball exercises massage balling massage balling 101 Massage Balling 101 The Hows and Whys + Some Exercises Maternity Matix Matthew Holness Mauviel Maxi Priest may chang essential oil me time meal plan meal plan fatigue meal plan makeover Meal Plan Makeover: A Step-By-Step Guide to Un-Suck A Sucky Meal Plan Meal Planning meal plans Meaningful Vote measles measles vaccine Media Medical medical kidnapping Medicine Watch Meissinger Family memory loss Men’s Gifts menopause menstrual bleeding menstrual cramp menstrual cycles menstrual issues menstrual symptoms menstruation Mental Health merlins rest Messaging Messenger Bags metabolic syndrome Metropolitan Police microbiome microwave radiation Mike Schneider Military milk & cookies Mindset Minneapolis Miscellaneous Misconceptions mobility Mohamed Salah Mohammed Bin Salman molasses moles mom boss mom on the go workout momboss Money monounsaturated fat month nine Month Three: Hydration! hydration Moo-phoria! mosaics motherhood Motivation Motorcycle Gear Motorcycle Helmets Motorcycles mountain climbers mountain savory essential oil mousetrap Movies Movies and TV Multi-Tools Murder muscle loss muscle matters muscle pain muscle relaxant muscle spasms Muscular Dystrophy Museum Music Musicals musings mustard oil My Biggest Mom Regrets + Time to Focus on Family Month Six My Biggest Mom Regrets + Time to Focus on Family Months Six and Seven myrrh oil Mysteries myth busting myth busting lifting weights makes you bulky Napoli nasturtium officinale Nathaniel Chalobah National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act Natural Expectorant natural expectorants natural remedies nausea nerve pain Netflix New Year Honours New Year’s Resolutions New York Times Newcastle United FC News Newspapers NHS NHS England niaouli essential oil NIH Nintendo Nintendo Switch no excuses No MSG Added no regrets No Sodium Nitrite No-deal Brexit non scale victories Northern England Northwind Supply Custom Leather Catchall Nutrition nutrition hack NVICP NW20 NW25 nyc oakland obesity Off-Roading ohn Wayne Boardshorts old county inn olive oil omega 7 omega-3 omega-6 Omnibus Autism Proceedings Online Features Online Shopping Oolong Tea Opinion oplatek oracle caverns orange essential oil orb ball oregano essential oi oregano oil oregon Organ Donation Original osteopenia osteoporosis oster Other our 12 minth transformation our 12 month transformation our 12 month transformation month five our 12 month transformation month five the power of women Our 12 Month Transformation Month Nine: Get Outside our 12 month transformation month six Our World outdoor activities Outdoors outsourced appliance delivery overlanding P.B. Dough pain pain relief Paleo and Gluten-Free Baking paleo bread paleo recipes Palmitoleic Acid pantothenic acid paper calendar parental consent parental rights Parenting park park city passion flower patience Paul Dacre Paul Pogba pcos peanut butter pecans pediatricians pedophiles pedophilia People People’s Vote Pep Guardiola peppermint essential oil peppermint oil Peppers and Fries peppersauce cave Personal pertussis Peter Gotzsche Phoenix Children’s Hospital phytoestrogens picnic pie face PIH pine AZ Pizza Float planner plant a garden plant vs animal challenge plant-based Player Welfare Podcast Politics Pop Culture pops Popular Articles Pork Portugal Possum Potassium Symptoms Poultry powell pack Powell Pack Guide for How to Visit Arizona like a Local prebiotics Pregnancy Premier League Primer Priorities Prison Reform Prisons probiotic probiotics processed foods Product Product Reviews promise promises Protein prunes psoriasis Psychotropic Drugs pu-eh tea Pubs Purchase Date – 2018 Pure Cardio 2 Review quad rolls quality family time quality time Quotes radiation radiation protection for health radio frequency radiation Rafa Benitez Raising Healthy Kids Randy Wallace rashes Rassie Erasmus Raul Blaze Ray Ban Wayfarers Folding Sunglasses Ray-Ban reading Real Food Nutrition Real Life Real-life Reality Tv Recipes red moles reduce cholesterol reebok shoes reflection refrigerator rehmannia glutinosa Religion Remain Remedies renew life Research resistance training respiration respiratory health Restaurants restaurateurs restless leg syndrome reviews RFR rheumatism Rides Ripsanity Review Roads Roasting Rack Robbery Robert F. Kennedy Jr. robert greene 50th law Robots Rock Climbing rockland county Rolex roller ball roller ball exercises roller balling Roman Catholic Church rome Romford Non-Stick BBQ Topper with Cast Aluminum Handle Root rose essential oil rose geranium oil rosemary oil Ruby Rugby Union Running RuPaul safe mode sage sake salads salsas salt Samantha Osteraas Samsung Samsung Gear Samsung Gear S3 Samurai sandalwood essential oil sandalwood oil Sarcopenia saturated fats Saudi Arabia Sausage say no say yes scale scavenger hunt Science Scotch Whisky Scotland screen time screensharing sea cucumber seborrheic dermatitis Second Referendum Second Vote self care self-love september settings Sexism sexual abuse sexual abuse of children Shades shaken baby syndrome Shaun T Shaun T Review Shaun Week Heart Rate Shaun Week Heart Rate Analysis Shaun Week Hybrid Shaun Week Insane Focus Review Shaun Week Review shave kit Shift Core Shift Core Review Shift Mobility Review Shift Shop Shift Shop Hybrid Shift Shop Review Shift Shop Schedule Shift Shop Shop Rules Shoes Shooting Brakes Shopping Shopping and Saving Shoulders Arms Circuit Review show appreciation Shows Shutdown Sicily Side Dishes + Vegetables Simply Shredz singh meadoes Skiing skin and hair health skin benefits skin care skin health Skincare skinhealth Skis Slavisa Jokanovic sleep sleep problems Slide Rock slide rock state park Sly & Robbie SMART Goals Smart Home Smart Speaker Smartphones Smartwatches Sneakers snickerdoodles Snowboarding Snowboards social media social worker Somme Sonora Grill sore throat cold remedy sorrel sorrel drink South Africa Rugby Union South Carolina Soy Allergen Space spain Spanish Flu spasms spearmint oil Special Juicers Speed 25 Review Speed 35 Review Speed 4.0 Review Speed 45 Review splenda sponsor Sponsored sponsored post Sport Sports Sports Cars Sports Nutrition sprinkles Sri Lanka SSKI Stand-up starbucks Station Wagons Stay Motivated Staycation steam Stéphane Leclerc stetzer electric stetzer filter review Stocking Stuffers stop comparing Stories streaming Strength 25 Review Strength 35 Review Strength 45 Review strength training stress stress anxiety stress management Strictly Come Dancing 2018 strong families strong family Stuff You Need Stuffing Style Submitted sucralose sugar sugar cookies Sugar under 2 grams Suitcases sumfest summer summertime sunburn Sunday Brunch Sunglasses Super Shift Core Review Super Speed 50 Review Super Strength 50 Review Supercars superfood Supplements supplements for women Suranya Aiyar Surfing sushi Sustainable Travel SUVs Sweaters sweets swiss Army Knife Swords symptoms symptoms of PCOS t levels Tactical Knives take a break talents tangerine oil Taste Rating – Good tea tea bags tea tree essential oil tea tree oil Tech Tech Advice Technology Television Terrorism testosterone texas Texas Children’s Hospital Thanksgiving the 50 laws of power the 50th law book the 50th law book review the 50th law pdf the 50th law summary The Apprentice The Arts The Bungalow Club The Circle The Coffee Shop The Economist The Four Seasons Scottsdale the ins and outs of gut health The Leangains Method The Scoop Blog The Secret TV Producer the transform app The Wishlist Thea Gilbert Theatre Theatre Interviews Theresa May thermography thimerasol This Morning thyme essential oil thyme oil thyroid health tiles time time management time management skills tinnitus Tips tiredness TMJ syndrome tombstone arizona Tony Blair Tottenham Hotspur FC tourist Town Talk Diner Toys traditional remedies traditions Training Videos trans fats Transfer Gossip Transfer Rumours Transfer Window Transform App Transform Your Time Management Skills transformation transformation journey Travel Travel Advice Travel News tribe Tricks troubleshooting Trucks trust the process tryptophan TSA Turkey turmeric turmeric oil turpentine oil TV TV Shows UK UK Travel Ulcerative Colitis universal home visits unplug upper back rolls upper body exercises Urban Forage Urethritis urinary tract health urinary tract infection USA Made USA Travel Used Cars UTIs Vacation vaccine bills vaccine court vaccine deaths vaccine exemptions Vaccine Information Statements vaccine injuries vaccine safety vaccine schedule vaccine training Vaccines vaccines for pregnant women vegan Vegan & Raw Lifestyles Veganism vegetarian veggies vermont Versus vetiver essential oil Video Video Call Video Games visit arizona Vitamin D vitamin e Vitamins vitamix wagyu Walks Wallets Watches water water bottle watercress watermelon seed tea Watford FC we’re all family weekly meal prep weekly menu prep weigh control weight gain Weight Loss weight loss tips Weird Stuff Wellbeing Wellness West End Theatre Wetsuits what the gut what the gut the ins and outs of gut health When in AZ My 8 Greats In This Beautiful State whirlpool whiskey whiskey highball Whisky WHO William B. Grant williams sonoma apron wine Wine + Beer Winter Winter Gear winter savory wintergreen oil woman womanhood women Womenhealth Work work out Workout Workout Gear Workouts workouts for busy people World wound healing Wow Foods wrinkles Wristwatches WW1 WWI Yeti One Gallon Rambler ylang ylang oil Yoshinori Muto Youth Football