Calivu | Cure your Flu with Natural Ingredients! - Calivu
Home
For You
Features
Blog
Kitchen
Recipes
Exercises
Cure your Flu with Natural Ingredients!
5 Jan 2019
Muntaha
Health & Fitness
Leave a comment
Health is a wonderful gift. We never care about our health until we ruin it. When we are sick, the uneasy sensation even if we are in bed, is very troublesome. The increase in body temperature, body aches, and nasal congestion leaves everyone miserable. Catching a cold in winters is very common. Everyone is in the parameter of this disease including children, adults, and elders. It is a contagious disease passing from person to person but there are remedies which can make you feel better.
Symptoms
The symptoms of flu vary from a cough, sore throat, nasal congestion, fever, diarrhea, chills, and body aches. But if you are having trouble breathing, feel faint or increase in heartbeat, go to your doctor and get medical help. The above irritating symptoms are for the better functioning of your body. The high temperature regulates the blood faster. Coughing cleans up the thick mucus-containing germs. So these symptoms are the result of your body fighting back and killing the virus, and are for your own welfare.
Cure
There are many cures to remove annoying cold and lift up your body from the irritating symptoms and running nose.
Anti-viral Medicine
The most common medicines which are prescribed by the doctors are anti-viral medicine. But anti-viral medicines like Tamiflu are only effective if taken within the 48 hours of infection. So if you are fast enough to take medicine within the first 48 hours it may lessen the healing period by a day or two. Although, these antiviral medicines may have side effects such as vomiting and headache. So it is better to prefer home remedies over medicines.
Use Oregano Oil
Oregano oil has been used for the treatment of a sore throat, bronchitis, and flu since ancient times. It is rich in vitamins and minerals and has many benefits. It clears up the lungs passage and is antiviral/antibacterial. It stimulates sweating, bringing the fever down. It helps in digestion and promotes bile flow, so it reduces symptoms like nausea and diarrhea. You just have to put 3 to 10 drops in a tablespoon of water, rush it down your throat and do it twice. Repeat this 3 to 4 times a day and you’ll feel your body healing up faster. Use P73 oregano oil which is higher in vitamins.
Increase Ginger intake
Ginger root is found very productive for the treatment of cold and flu. Ginger intake can chase away nausea. It is proved that a few slices of ginger boiled in water are beneficial for bronchitis and sore throat. Symptoms of nausea can be completely eliminated with the intake of ginger root capsule. It is so effective that it can reduce the worst possible nausea to a slight nausea condition. You can use raw ginger, ginger powder, ginger root capsules. You can also use it in form of ginger tea. But Homemade ginger recipes are best.
Drink more Water
Water is very beneficial to our health. But when you are sick, your water intake lessens. Best way to treat flu is to stay hydrated. Drink water as often as you can. More water intake will promote sweating which in turn bring down fever. It also promotes urination, by which harmful chemicals and water are removed from your body. It enhances the healing by balancing body fluids. It also covers up the water deficiencies due to vomiting and diarrhea.
Use Olive Leaf Extracts
Olive leaf extracts increase the immunity by boosting up body’s immune system. It regulates the white blood cells in the body and weakens the viruses and bacteria. It increases body immunity by several folds. It is best for flu treatment and available in capsules. But the best intake would be with tea. Children as well adults can take several sips throughout the day. For capsule dose, you may follow the instructions. It does not have any side effects and works efficiently. It contains antioxidants and anticancer, anti-inflammatory chemicals. It prevents microbial activity.
Use of Probiotics
Use of probiotics keeps your digestive system healthy and sound. Probiotics are bacteria which keeps you gut strong which in turn increases your immunity. If you have been with someone ill you should take probiotics as precautions. During winter, children are more likely to get sick. Therefore, probiotics are added to their milk intake to increase their immunity. While picking up probiotics, Lactobacillus species are preferred because it stimulates immunity to withstand the diseases.
Honey
Use honey for flu treatment. It is a good home remedy. Honey has many antiviral and antibacterial properties. Honey proves to be really helpful for a sore throat and cough. Take honey with herbal tea, which will not only taste good but kill microbes. Honey contains many vitamins as well. It is proved that giving few grams of honey to children at bedtime cures coughing. It also helps children to sleep soundly. Use of honey with lemon is good for bronchitis.
Use Saltwater for flu relief
The worst thing in flu in running nose. The irritation in the nose is extremely troublesome. To get some relief some it, use salt mixed in water. Inject some of it in one nostril while blocking the other gently with your finger. Eject the salty water 2-3 times and clear the nose. Now repeat the steps with the other nostril. It will kill the microbes in the mucus, and clean the epithelial lining of the nose. But it is a temporary relief. You will have to repeat the process after some time. Use Vicks Vaporub on the chest to open air passage and fight congestion. Keep a eucalyptus bottle near you. Inhale steam after regular intervals.
Eat Soup
It is the best remedy for fly treatment so far. Soup is delicious as well good for your health. Chicken soup warms up your body and slows down the neutrophils in the body. Slow neutrophils in the blood help increase body immunity. Because of soup the neutrophils are more concentrated on the infection site and speeds up the healing. It also helps to give your body essential minerals and vitamins. Vegetables in soup help you get important fibers and carbohydrates. It maintains your body fluids as well. So it is both a treat and a medicine.
Above mentioned remedies are the best ways to overcome Cold or flu. The most suitable course to cure flu is to rest properly. These remedies will only be helpful if accompanied by proper bed rest. So become a couch potato for a day or two and let your body heal up. Don’t get gloomy and miserable, because these treatments will chase away your flu and refresh your mood.
Muntaha
previous article next article
Leave a Reply Cancel reply