WiFi, Bluetooth
Electrosensitivity
Home
What is ES?
Impairments,Symptoms
History of ES
History of ES - Links
Viewpoints on ES
Science Overview: ES
Expert Viewpoints
Other Organisations
Precautionary Principle
Nocebo, Electrophobia
World Health Organiz.
Pro-Industry Regulators
United Nations
European Union
Provocation Failures
Documentaries, Films
EMF Warfare, Weapons
What Causes ES?
Causes Outside Home
Causes: Home, Work
Scientific Studies
ES, EHS and Illnesses
ES, EHS, Illness, Cancer
Mechanisms, Pathways
Bibliographies, News
Corruption by Industry
Electromagnetic Effects
EMF Exposure
Provocation Studies
Plants and Animals
Resonance, Coherence
How do you Treat ES?
Recognizing ES
Treating ES
Centers: Real ES & EHS; Centers: Electrophobia
Experiences of ES - 1
Experiences of ES - 2
Practical Advice
5G Health Harm
Avoiding radiation
Bluetooth, AirPods
Cell, Cordless Phones
Cellphone Towers
CFL,LED,Halogen Lights
Children: RF Radiation
College, Uni. Students
DirtyElect, GroundCurr.
Disability and Access
Earthing and Grounding
Ecocide: RF Radiation
Healthcare Needs: ES
Hearing Aids
Housing and Refuges
Insurance: RF Radiation
Magnetic Fields, ELF
Measuring Radiation
Safety Limits
Satellite Health Dangers
Shielding, Protection
Smart Meter Protection
Sound, Infrasound
TETRA
White Zones
WiFi, Bluetooth
Wireless Charging
Information: Books
Books: General
Links
Bans: WiFi, Cellphones
Cancer, Neurological
Diagnosis, Treatment
EMF Refugees
Legal
Technical
Replacing WiFi and Bluetooth
back to: Practical Advice
Introduction: the need to remove WiFi radiation
WiFi can cause electrosensitivity symptoms, and is a known class 2B cancer agent. It is particularly bioactive for two reasons: (a) it has low frequencies such as 10Hz as well as its microwave carrier frequency of 2.45 or 5 GHz, and (b) it is very strongly modulated at up to 100 times, much stronger than cellphone signals.
It is therefore essential to eliminate WiFi from your environment or reduce it as much as possible.
The need to eliminate WiFi especially applies to children, pregnant women, the elderly, sick people and people particularly sensitive to this type of radiation. One WiFi router can reduce its radiation by 70% to help protect pregnant women.
Alliance for Natural Health: "Exclusive: Parents take steps to remove children from UK primary school over wi-fi risks” (ANH, July 2015, about Sarah and Will Mockett who removed their children from a local school in England)
Anon.: "WIFI is Killing Children" (Health, Wealth, Happiness, March 6 2014)
Anon.: "Wi-Fi - A Silent Weapon For A Quiet War" (Mediocre Monday, August 3 2017, 33 min.)
Arrok Media: "Silent Killer - WiFi: Be Aware of it" (Novermber 17 2017, 3 min)
Ashland Public Schools: Best Practice (reducing cancer and neurological radiation from WiFI and cellphones, 2014)
Bandara P et al: “Letter to the Editor [Wifi exposure in Australian schools]” (Rad Prot Dosimetry, 2017)
Lloyd Burrell: "WiFi Radiation – How To Protect Yourself" (Electric Sense, March 19 2018)
Prof. Tom Butler: "On the Clear Evidence of the Risks to Children from Smartphone and WiFi Radio Frequency Radiation" (University College Cork, February 27 2019)
Dr George Carlo: "Wi-Fi in Schools: Dr. George Carlo" (2012, 27 min.)
Channel 10: "WIFI In schools - Ch10 - 30/08/2016" (Israeli TV, 5 mins)
Dr Maryanne Demasi: "Wi-Fried?" (ABC: Catalyst, 2016, 29 min.)
Cecelia Doucette: "Dangers of WiFi: Episode 1, Episode 2, Episode 3, Episode 4, Episode 5" (with Keith Marciniak, 2016, 18 to 32 min per Episode)
"Effect of WiFi on Seeds?" (2014, 7 min.)
EH Trust: "Peer Reviewed Published Research Studies On Wi-Fi And 2.4 GHz Wireless Frequencies"
EH Trust: "Worcester Massachusetts Public Schools Votes To Post Precautionary Guidelines On Wi-Fi Radiation On Website" (May 2017)
ES-UK: "Selected Studies on Electrosensitivity (ES) and Electromagnetic hyper-sensitivity (EHS)"
Nick Fleming: "Wi-Fi risks in schools 'must be reviewed'" (Daily Telegraph, May 21 2007)
​Catherine J Frompovich: "Get Microwave-Transmitted WI-FI Out Of Schools—Use Hard-Wired Connections Instead" (Activist Post, May 14 2017)
Debra Fry: "Why die for Wi-Fi? My child did - will yours?" (Towards Better Health, May 3 2016)
Mary Gaylor: “Penrith should be WiFi-free zone, not have free WiFi” (Cumberland & Westmorland Herald, July 6th 2015)
Alice Gastinger: "A precautionary tale about Wifi" (Natural Medicine New Zealand, 2012)
​Hope Good: "Beyond Digital Addiction: Your Kids May Be Affected by Wi-Fi and Electronic Devices Even If You Aren’t" (Activist Post, December 22 2017)
Hope Good: "Your Pets May Be Affected by Wi-Fi and Electronic Devices Even If You Aren’t" (Activist Post, December 20 2017)
GMI Reporter: "Is Wi-Fi in Schools Harming Our Children? The Testimony of Rodney Palmer" (GreenMedInfo, October 1 2018)
Dr Edward Group: "10 Shocking Facts about the Health Dangers of Wi-Fi" (Global Healing Centre, October 2 2015)
Institute of Science in Society: "Drowning in a Sea of Microwaves: “To Be or not to Be Wireless”. The Unspoken Wi-fi Health Hazards…" (Global Research, May 17 2007)
Catherine Kleiber: "Safety calls for removing wireless technology from schools" (The Cap Times, August 31 2017)
Zoe Kleinman: "'Pregnancy wi-fi' router causes controversy in China" (BBC News. 2015)
"Dr. Klinghardt's Most Important Talk: "Exposure to WiFi & EMF's - Root Cause of Health Problems" (August 5 2018)
Jonathan Landsman: "Dr. Dietrich Klinghardt: EMF pollution and chronic disease – The untold truth exposed" (Natural News, September 27 2017)
Prof. Lennart Hardell: "Doctor Who Stood Up to Monsanto & Declared Agent Orange Carcinogenic Cautions on Wireless" (2017: Ban wireless in schools)
Prof. Lennart Hardell & Michael Calberg: "Regarding: Wireless technology should not be used in schools or pre-schools due to health risks for children and employees" (letter to Andrew Zuckerman, CEO Montgomery County Schools, Rockville, MD, USA, November 30 2015)
Geoffrey Lean: “As more countries ban iPads and mobile phones from the classroom, could wifi be giving our children cancer?” (Daily Mail, June 22 2018)
Grace Macaskill: "School wifi networks 'could put children's health at risk' as grieving mum tells of daughter's wifi 'allergy'" (Mirror, May 26 2018)
Sara Malm: "Does YOUR toddler play on an iPad? Taiwan makes it ILLEGAL for parents to let children under two use electronic gadgets... and under-18s must limit use to 'reasonable' lengths" (Daily Mail, January 28th 2015)
Karl Maret: “WiFi Dosimetry in a School: Preliminary Observations” (Electromagnetic Health, June 22 2015, 10 minutes, comparing the levels of WiFi radiation at a coffee shop with much higher levels in a school where peaks matched headache symptoms in an EHS pupil)
Marta Marychuk: “"Ostrich with its head in the sand": Mississauga mom demands Catholic school board accommodate son's Wi-Fi injury” (Brampton Guardian, June 13 2018)
Deb Mayer: "Can You See It Now?" (Parents Across America, Oregon, June 27 2018)
Jennifer McGraw: “Parents Blame Elementary School’s Cell Tower After 4th Student Diagnosed With Cancer” (CBS Sacramento, March 12 2019)
Mercola Dr J: "‘Wi-Fried’ — Is Wireless Technology Dooming a Generation to Ill Health?" (2018)
Conan Milner: “Wi-Fi in Schools: Experimenting With the Next Generation: Commercial wireless systems expose children to nation's highest radiation levels” (Epoch Times, February 28 2019)
Lisa Nagy: "Allergic to Wi-Fi?" (The Doctors TV, 2016, 5 min.)
NACST: "Wired Internet For Kids" ("Ode to First Lady Melania Trump", May 7 2017, 2 min.)
New Vision: "Shocking facts about the health dangers of Wi-Fi" (2016)
Prof. Martin Pall: "WiFi Health Effects: Dr. Martin Pall to Portland Public Schools Board" (2014, 6 min.)
Prof. Martin Pall: "Wi-Fi as a Very Substantial Threat to Human Health" (2017)
Pall ML: "Wi-Fi is an important threat to human health" (Environ Res, 2018)
Rodney Palmer: "Presentation to the Royal Society of Canada on Safety Code 6" (2013). "Two children dropped dead since WiFi was introduced."
"Parents Fight Wireless Radiation in Schools" (IBA News, 2015, 4 min.)
Susan Patterson: "Your WiFi Could Be Harming Your Health" (The Alternative Daily, April 16 2017)
Sandhya Raghavan: "6 shocking health hazards of Wi-Fi" (Health News, December 22 2017)
Lee Rickwood: “Awareness Campaign Needed on Cellphone Use, Wi-Fi Radiation Risks amid Conflicting Government Reports” (What’s Your Tech, Canada, July 30th 2015)
SafeSchools: "WiFi in schools proven dangerous" (2010)
Philip Schneider: "Award Winning Journalist Exposes Wifi Disaster in Canadian Public School that Injured Dozens of Children" (January 8 2019)
Timothy Schoechle: "Re-Inventing Wires: The Future of Landlines and Networks" (National Institute for Science, Law & Public Policy Washington, DC, 2018)
Dorothea Siegler: "Wi-Fi dangerous to health and should not be installed at seniors facility" (Cowichan Valley Citizen, April 3 2019)
Dr Stephen Sinatra: "Wifi Dangers: What You Can’t See Can Hurt You" (Heart Mind Institute, 2016)
Brian Spero: "Is Wi-Fi in Schools Safe? Putting EMF exposure on your radar of potential health risks" (Boston Parents Paper, August 2015)
Sarah Swain: "Parents remove children from school, saying Wi-Fi networks are making them sick" (Daily Telegraph, April 2nd 2015, about the Spencer children, 5, 8 and 15, in Australia, sick with depression, anxiety and headaches)
Flora Thompson: "Is Wi-Fi making your child ill?" (Daily Telegraph, May 9 2015)
Flora Thompson: "Doctor claims wi-fi and mobile signals are 'putting you at risk’ and should be avoided especially at bedtime" (The Argus, October 24 2017)
Expert doctors and scientists: Letters and documents against Wifi in Toronto schools (EH Trust: Toronto, 2016)
Barrie Trower: "Wi-Fi Risks in Schools: Letter Addressed by Barry Trower to U.K. Minister for Schools" (October 13 2011)
Barrie Trower: "Wi-Fi – A Thalidomide in the Making. Who Cares?" (2013)
Barrie Trower: "Wifi, Microwaves and the Consequences to our Health - Barrie Trower" (Daily Alternative News, 2013, 14 min.)
​"Anyone who puts Wifi into a school should be locked up for the rest of their life. They're not fit to walk on the surface of this planet, because they haven't looked at the research and, whatever incentive they have, it is not worth the genetic problems that parents are going to face with their children when they're born.
​This is already published. It's available to look up. It's what I call intentional ignorance."
"Turn It Off 4 Kids Initiative" (National Association for Children and Safe Technology (NACST), 2016)
Florence Waters: "Is Wi-Fi making your child ill?" (Daily Telegraph, May 9 2015, about 9-year-old Jessica Lewis in England who in 2011 started to get headaches, excessive tiredness and rashes from a school Wi-Fi system and since then has had to be home-educated)
"Wi-Fi Refugees. Electrosensitive people try to escape wireless technology" (RT Documentary, 2017, 52 min.)
"Wi Fried" (ABC Catalyst, 2016, 29 min.)
Wilke I: “Biological and pathological effects of 2.45 GHz radiation on cells, fertility, brain, and behaviour” (umwelt · medizin · gesellschaft, 2018)
Christine Zipps: "Parents/Teachers: Does your child have these symptoms?" (September 25 2018, 7 min.)
Patent for reduction in WiFi radiation:
Swisscom: "Reduction of Electrosmog in Wireless Local Networks" (2003)
WiFi (and cellphone) radiation in Kindergartens exceeds EHS safety limits:
Measurements, both environmental and personal, for 10 children and 20 kindergartens in Melbourne, Australia, over 16 frequency bands 88 MHz-5.8 GHz, exceeded safety limits (EUROPAEM 2016) for sensitive or EHS people :
- median environmental exposure = 0.179 V/m
- median personal exposure = 0.081 mV/m
Safety limits (EUROPAEM 2016, V/m) for sensitive (EHS) people:
- for GSM/UMTS: = 0.019 mV/m
- for WiFi 2.45GHz/DAB: = 0.06 mV/m
(Bhatt CR et al, 2016).
Switching off
Simple ways to reduce or eliminate WiFi radiation:
Only switch on your WiFi when you need it.
Always switch off your WiFi at night.
Use a WiFi router with reduced radiation.
Replace WiFi with a safer system, as below.
Safety tips and measuring WiFi
Simple ways to make your life safer:
Peter Sullivan: "A Message to Dads about Wireless Safety" (2015)
Peter Sullivan: "Cell Phone Safety Tips" (2015)
Peter Sullivan: "iPad Safety Tips" (2015)
Peter Sullivan: "Laptop Safety Tips" (2015)
"WiFi Radiation - Dangers of WiFi - See It Measured - How To Remediate WiFi Radiation" (EMF Saftey Zone, 2012, 7 min.)
Children made sick by Wifi and cellophones, and forced out of school
Testimony in Support of: Commonwealth of Massachusetts
​(H.2030 An Act relative to best management practices for wireless in schools and public institutions of higher education; S.2079 An Act reducing non-ionizing radiation exposure in schools Submitted to: Joint Committee on Education Committee Members, by: XXXXXXXXXXX, MD, DTM&H on 9.4.2017)
"Child With Heart Problems From Wireless: 5G Health Risks California SB 649 Hearing" (Environmental Health Trust, 2017, 3 min.)
Two case studies of children made sick by Wifi, and one of a teacher made sick by Wifi:
in Hedendahl L et al.: "Electromagnetic hypersensitivity – an increasing challenge to the medical profession" (Rev Environ Health, 2015)
Replace WiFi with wired Ethernet cables and a non-WiFi router
Cabled networks: for a small office or apartment it is easy to lay cables to connect a non-wireless Router with internet devices.
"How to Install Wired Internet in Your Home" (EMF Analysis, 2016)
Restricting WiFi in towns
Rob Horgan “British expat launches appeal to unplug WiFi in her town” (The Olive Press, December 9 2016)
Replace cordless phones
Remove your cordless phone. Replace it with a landline wired phone. Cordless phones give off high levels of radiation and are as dangerous as cellphones and wireless laptops or tablets.
Andrea Fabry: "The Health Effects of Cordless Phones" (IT Takes Time, 2015)
Magda Havas: "Radiation from cordless phone base station affects the heart" (2010)
Replace Bluetooth
Bluetooth, like WiFi and all other radio frequency radiation, is a known neurological agent and 2B cancer agent. Although less powerful than some cellphone transmitters and some WiFi modems and transmitters, its signals still cause health damage with their pulsed microwaves. It should be removed or replaced with wired cables.
Mia de Graff: "Could wireless headphones harm your health? Public health professor warns radiation of AirPods are just as bad" (2016) where Dr Joel Moskowitz of UC Berkeley cites research slamming Bluetooth, as used in Apple's new iPhone Bluetooth-powered wireless earbuds, and warns that even low frequency emissions break down blood-brain barrier.
dLAN plugs - for wired powerline networks
For a medium sized house it is easy to use dLAN plugs on the house wiring circuit to allow each device its own wired access to the internet. These devices produce dirty electricity and radio waves along the wiring power circuit, but the radiation is much less invasive than WiFi and less biologically active if you sit or sleep a good distance from the wiring. It is best to switch off the main plugs and Router at night.
The practical advantages of dLAN plugs are speed and security.
PC Centric: "How To Set Up A Powerline Network" (2013)
Wired internet for iPads
Some devices, such as iPads, do not have an access point for wired internet connections. Wired connections can usually devised.
Total EMF Solutions: "iPad Hardwired w/Ethernet Connection Via Powered USB Hub" (2015)
Virtual Assistants
Amazon Echo and Google Home use Wifi at 2.45 and 5.0 GHz.
Their safety manuals (Amazon Echo, Google Home) advise a minimum distance of 20 cm (8 inches), but this is only to prevent short-term heating, not long-term effects such as cancers, infertility and ES.
LiFi - communication by light
LiFi, or Light Fidelity, communicates via signals within the lighting, using LED lights.
LiFi has not yet been tested for biological effects, and increasingly scientific studies are showing harm from LEDs, especially from the high proportion of blue light.
See: Replacing CFL, Halogen and LED light bulbs
American Medical Association: "Human and Environmental Effects of Light Emitting Diode (LED) Community Lighting" (2016)
Behar Cohen F et al.: "Light-emitting diodes (LED) for domestic lighting: any risks for the eye?" (Prog Retin Eye Res., 2011)
Jaadane I et al: "Retinal damage induced by commercial light emitting diodes (LEDs)" (Free Radic Biol Med., 2015)
Colin Jeffrey: "LED lightbulbs create wireless network wherever they are installed" (Gizmag, July 9th 2015)
Lifi news: "What is LiFi?" (2013, 3m)
Prof. Harald Haas: "My Li-Fi Revolution" (University of Edinburgh, 2014, 76m)
TED Talk: "LiFi: Technology Light" (2012)
Further information on WiFi and health:
Magda Havas: "WiFi in schools is safe: True or False?" (2011)
Powerwatch: "Public exposure levels from WiFi systems" (2007)
Powerwatch: "WiFi and Health" (2007)
WiFi in Schools.com: "136 Studies Showing Health Effects from WiFi Radio Frequency Radiation" (2015)
"Why WiFi and WiMax is a Serious Health Threat" (EMF Experts, 2018)
WiFi Dangers.com
Doctors against WiFi:
"Open letter by British medical doctors: Health and safety of Wi-Fi and mobile phones" (2014)
Teacher Unions and other concerned about WiFi:
"Teacher Unions and Parent Teacher Organizations Taking Action On Wi-Fi Health Risks" (February 18 2016)
BBC: "Teachers want wi-fi risk research" (BBC News, April 23 3007)
BBC: "Wi-fi laptop fears for children" (BBC News, April 28 2007)
BBC: "Wi-Fi: A warning signal" (BBC Panorama, May 20 2007)
BBC: "Transcript: Wi-Fi" (BBC Panorama, May 21 2007)
Neurokinetics: "Over 1 Million Members of Teachers Unions in Germany, UK, USA and Canada Who Have Done Their Research Do Not Support WiFi in Schools" (Why Fry, March 30 2014)
Citizens want warnings on Wifi:
"Hollywood Activists Demand A Federal Warning About Exposure To Wireless Radiation From WiFi" (Value Walk, July 18 2018)
Government bans and restrictions on WiFi and cellphones:
See also: Legal
Some governments, councils and regulators have banned or restricted WiFi and cellphones in schools and for young people for health reasons, requiring cabled or wired internet connections instead. These include:
Argentina:
a bill requiring wired internet connections in schools and hospitals (2016)
Australia:
a school had to replace WiFi with wired internet connections where there was a child disabled by EHS (2015);
an employee intolerant of WiFi was awarded compensation after an employer failed to protect him exposure to wireless radiation (2013)
Canada:
Disability Legislation: EHS is recognized as an environmental sensitivity requiring worker accommodation (2007);
House of Commons: Report of the Standing Committee on Health: Recommendation 5: That the Government continue to provide reasonable accommodations for environmental sensitivities, including EHS, as required under the Canadian Human Rights Act.
EUROPAEM:
non-thermal safety limits, such as 0.01 microW/m2 for sensitive people including children with EHS, prohibit WiFi (2016)
European Council:
proposed all member states ban wireless radiation in schools (2013)
Finland:
​Olli Tammilehto: "Parents had Wifi switches installed in a Finnish school" (March 24 2017)
France:
a ban on WiFi and cellphones in all nurseries and restrictions in primary schools (2015);
a ​worker intolerant of WiFi and similar radiation was awarded financial compensation (2015)
Germany:
Various states: warnings against WiFi (2007)
Israel:
Haifa schools: WiFi removed (2016);
​Ministry of Education: stop the installation of WiFi in schools prior to the first grade and limit WiFi between first and third grades; teachers must turn off cellphones and WiFi routers when not in use (2013); bans cellphones and limits WiFi in class (2016)
Italy:
Borgofranco d'Ivrea: banned WiFi in two schools (2016)
(2017) The decree of the Environment Minister has recommendations on reducing EMF. Section 2.3.5.4 of the Decree recommends reducing exposure to indoor electromagnetic pollution.
(a) Reduce low frequency magnetic fields: “In order to reduce as far as possible the indoor exposure to low frequency magnetic fields (ELFs) induced by electrical panels, uprights, conductor dorsals, etc.” the design of the plants must provide that meters and electric panels are outside the building and take measures to reduce levels.
(b) Reduce Radio frequency radiation: Reduce as much as possible the indoor exposure to high-frequency magnetic fields (RF) equipment with alternative data transfer systems to Wifi, eg. cable connection or Powerline communication (PLC) technology.
This was started by a Communication by ECC (COM(2003) 302), to the European Parliament about “Integrated Product Policy: Develop the concept of environmental lifecycle.” (“Italy – Policy Recommendations On Cell Phones, Wireless Radiation & Health”, Environmental Health Trust, August 2017)
Spain:
The high court in Madrid: recognized intolerance to WiFi and EHS as a permanent disability and awarded financial compensation (2016)
Sweden:
intolerance of WiFi recognized as a disabling impairment and the state provides for persons with this impairment (2000)
Russia:
The Russian National Committee on Non-Ionizing Radiation (RNCIRP): officially recommended that Wi-Fi not be used in schools (2012)
Taiwan:
WiFi illegal for chidren under 2 years of age, and wireless use must be reasonable for all children under 18 years of age (2015)
UK:
EMF Regulations 2016 HSE Guide: employers should make a risk assessment and take special consideration of employees at particular risk such as pregnant women where WiFi and Bluetooth etc. are listed as possible health hazards (2016);
Employment and Social Support Allowance: granted under the Social Entitlement Chamber, ESA Regulation 29, Exceptional Circumstances, 2b, where the EHS claimant would have been able to lead a normal life with little or no functional impairment anywhere where there was no WiFi, cellphones or cellphone towers (2012);
Trades Unions Congress: carcinogens, including class 2B, should not be used in the workplace where possible and should be removed completely (2012);
UK Chief Medical Officers: advise that children and young people under 16 should be encouraged to use cellphones for essential purposes only, and to keep calls short (2011)
USA:
Job Accommodation Network (JAN), the US Department of Labor, the Office for Disability Employment Poiicy (ODEP): suggested accommodation for workers with EHS intolerance symptoms: Relocate workplace away from areas where symptoms are triggered. This may include limiting certain types of devices in the vicinity of the employee's workstation; Provide wired telephones and network connections, etc. (2016);
Los Angeles Unified Schools Board: provided WiFi-free work accommodation for a teacher made intolerant of WiFi by EHS (2014)
World Health Organization (WHO): IARC:
WiFi (2.45 GHz, 5 GHz carrier frequency) is a class 2B carcinogen (2011)
WiFi (10 Hz pulse) is a class 2B carcinogen (2001)
World Health Organization (WHO): ICNIRP:
Vulnerable sections of the general population need non-thermal safety limits. (2002)
"Certain sensitive individuals" need non-thermal safety limits. (2002)
Some normal individuals exposed concurrently to two agents need non-thermal limits. (2002)
Some science on the known adverse health effects of WiFi:
​Çelik Ö et al.: “Oxidative stress of brain and liver is increased by Wi-Fi (2.45GHz) exposure of rats during pregnancy and the development of newborns” (2015)
​Dasdag S et al.: “Effect of long-term exposure of 2.4 GHz radiofrequency radiation emitted from Wi-Fi equipment on testes functions” (2015)
Hassanshahi A et al.: “The effect of Wi-Fi electromagnetic waves in unimodal and multimodal object recognition tasks in male rats” (2017)
Johansson O et al: “Exacerbation of demyelinating syndrome after exposure to wireless modem with public hotspot” (2016)
Markov M et al.: “Wi-Fi technology - an uncontrolled global experiment on the health of mankind” (2013)
Joel M. Moskowitz: "5G Wireless Technology: Millimeter Wave Health Effects" (August 7 2017)
Othman H et al.: “Effects of prenatal exposure to WIFI signal (2.45GHz) on postnatal development and behavior in rat: Influence of maternal restraint” (2017)
Paknahad M et al.: “Effect of radiofrequency radiation from Wi-Fi devices on mercury release from amalgam restorations” (2016)
Pall ML: "Wi-Fi is an important threat to human health" (2018)
Saili L et al.: “Effects of acute exposure to WIFI signals (2.45GHz) on heart variability and blood pressure in Albinos rabbit” (2015)
Shahin S et al: “2.45 GHz Microwave Radiation Impairs Learning and Spatial Memory via Oxidative/Nitrosative Stress Induced p53 Dependent/Independent Hippocampal Apoptosis: Molecular Basis and Underlying Mechanism” (2015)
Topsakal S et al.: “The ameliorative effect of gallic acid on pancreas lesions induced by 2.45 GHz electromagnetic radiation (Wi-Fi) in young rats” (2017)
Collections of studies:
"136 Studies Showing Health Effects from WiFi Radio Frequency Radiation" (2016)
Some older news on the dangers of Wifi:
BBCPanorama: "WiFi Warning Signal" (2007)
Gary Brown: "Wi-Fi in the Education Environment" (Safe in School, February 2 2011)
Canadian Press: "Ont. parents suspect Wi-Fi making kids sick" (CBC News, August 15 2011)
Canadian Press: "Ban Wi-Fi in classroom, Ontario teachers union urges" (CBC News, February 13 2012)
CTV: "Ontario school cuts Wi-Fi over safety concerns" (CTV, September 8 2011)
Kate Figes: “Wireless technology made me sick” (The London Evening Standard, November 23 2006)
France: "Sainte-Geneviève Library: Wi-Fi Hot Spots deactivation" (May 24 2008)
"France National Library gives-up WiFi" (Next-up, July 4 2008)
Mark Frauenfelder: "Town of Sebastopol, CA rescinds resolution to provide public Wifi" (boingboing, 2008)
Claire Heald: "Wi-fi worry" (BBC News, December 13 2006)
Carol Hughes: "Wi-Fi Concerns Should Lead to Updated Regulations - A Letter by Carol Hughes, MP" (September 7 2010)
"LATEST WARNING: Wi-Fi Dangerous to Children and Pregnant Women - Must Read!" (February 4 2011)
Juliette Maxam: “Computer network forced man to quit job” (East Anglian Daily Times, July 10 2006)
Jonathan Milne: “Wifi fears hang in the air” (Times Educational Supplement, December 15 2006)
Jonathan Milne "Mystery headaches reboot Wifi fears" (Times Educational Supplement, March 30 2007)
Joanna Bale: "Health fears lead schools to dismantle wireless networks" (London Times, November 20 2006)
"Radiation levels blamed for illnesses; Teacher became too sick to work:
Parents and teachers are forcing some schools to dismantle wireless computer networks amid fears that they could damage children’s health. More schools are putting transmitters in classrooms to give pupils wireless access from laptops to the school computer network and the internet. But many parents and some scientists fear that low levels of microwave radiation emitted by the transmitters could be harmful, causing loss of concentration, headaches, fatigue, memory and behavioural problems and possibly cancer in the long term. Scientific evidence is inconclusive, but some researchers think that children are vulnerable because of their thinner skulls and developing nervous systems.
At the Prebendal School, a prestigious preparatory in Chichester, West Sussex, a group of parents lobbied the headteacher, Tim Cannell, to remove the wireless network last month. Mr Cannell told The Times: “We listened to the parents’ views and they were obviously very concerned. We also did a lot of research. The authorities say it’s safe, but there have been no long-term studies to prove this. “We had been having problems with the reliability of it anyway, so we decided to exchange it for a conventional cabled system.” Vivienne Baron, who is bringing up Sebastian, her ten-year-old grandson, said: “I did not want Sebastian exposed to a wireless computer network at school. No real evidence has been produced to prove that this new technology is safe in the long term. Until it is, I think we should take a precautionary approach and use cabled systems.”
At Ysgol Pantycelyn, a comprehensive in Carmarthenshire, parents aired their concerns to the governors, who agreed to switch off its wireless network. Hywel Pugh, the head teacher, told The Times: “The county council and central government told us that wireless networks are perfectly safe, but as there were concerns we listened to them and decided that the concerns of the parents were of greater importance than our need to have a wireless network.” Judith Davies, who has a daughter at the school, said: “Many people campaign against mobile phone masts near schools, but there is a great deal of ignorance about wireless computer networks. Yet they are like having a phone mast in the classroom and the transmitters are placed very close to the children.”
Stowe School, the Buckinghamshire public school, also removed part of its wireless network after a teacher became ill. Michael Bevington, a classics teacher for 28 years at the school, said that he had such a violent reaction to the network that he was too ill to teach. “I felt a steadily widening range of unpleasant effects whenever I was in the classroom,” he said. “First came a thick headache, then pains throughout the body, sudden flushes, pressure behind the eyes, sudden skin pains and burning sensations, along with bouts of nausea. Over the weekend, away from the classroom, I felt completely normal.” Anthony Wallersteiner, the head teacher of Stowe School, said that he was planning to put cabled networks in all new classrooms and boarding houses.
Professor Sir William Stewart, chairman of the Health Protection Agency, said that evidence of potentially harmful effects of microwave radiation had become more persuasive over the past five years. His report said that while there was a lack of hard information of damage to health, the approach should be precautionary. A DfES spokesman said: “It’s up to individual schools to decide on this.”
German Federal Government: National warning: Avoid exposure to radiation emanating from WiFi in cafés, schools, public “hot spots", and private homes. Recommended that people should keep their exposure to radiation from Wi-Fi "as low as possible". (German article. 2007)
"RussCNIRP about WiFi and children's health/ Излучение WiFi и здоровье детей" (2012, 2 min)
"WIFI removed at Surrey BC School" (Stay on the Truth, November 1 2010)
History of Wifi:
The development of Wifi involved the invention of the Fast Fourier Transform Chip by Dr. John O'Sullivan to solve the 'cavern problem' of reflections within a building distorting the wireless signal. It involved multiple slow pulses and was developed by radio astronomers at CSIRO (The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation) in Australia during the 1990s. The standard was adopted in 1999. The patent was accepted in a test case in Texas, USA, in 2009.
Unfortunately, none of this modulation of wireless radiation was checked for its health effects. These adverse health effects from Wifi were first noted by a Becta report of 2000 noting that engineers in the UK installing Wifi in schools were complaining of specific neurological electrosensitivity symptoms such as headaches. Since then Wifi has been accepted as one of the most bioactive form of radiofrequency modulation, with its very low frequency pulse of 10 Hz and it very wide amplitude, some 100 times wider than a typical cellphone.
Nowadays Wifi is regarded by health experts as one of the most damaging developments in wireless technology. In international biological safety guidelines, such as EUROPAEM 2016 EMF Guidelines, experts have given it the lowest limit for safety, at 0.1 microWatt per meter squared, or 0.006 Volts per meter.
"A brief history of Wi-Fi" (Economist, June 10 2004)
"The story of Wi Fi" (ABC Science on Line, 2015, 12 min.) Transcript
Claims by Pro-WiFi Industry Apologists:
A few Wifi industry activists still claim, against the majority scientific evidence, that WiFi is not harmful.
Out of date argument
Some of these people have failed to read the hundreds of peer-reviewed studies proving adverse effects from exposure to Wifi and other radio frequency radiation. Kenneth Foster ("Is Wi-Fi a Health Threat in Schools?" Education Next, Summer 2019) quoted the invalidated and out-dated claim by the WHO of 2005 that "there is no basis to link electromagnetic hypersensitivity symptoms to electromagnetic-field exposure", even though the specific symptoms of radiation exposure common to electrosensitivity and microwave sickness have been known in the scientific literature since 1932 and established since the 1970s.
Objective Biological Markers
Within the last 15 years, since the WHO's invalidated claim of 2005, there have been studies providing diagnostic criteria. These include a personal history and biological markers, including genetic haplotypes, oxidative stress, cerebral brain perfusion scans, 3d fMRI scans, and many other markers.
Long-term Biological Guidelines
The activist cartel - e.g. the FCC, IEEE, ICNIRP, ARPANSA and Health Canada - does not refer to the majority science on this issue. It is still trying to support only the industry's short-term heating guidelines based on Schwan's mistake of 1953, not long-term biological guidelines line Bioinitiative 2012, EUROPAEM 2016, IGNIR 2018, and Seletun 2010.
Not "disruptive" or "impossible"
In practical terms, the claim that "trying to produce a 'radiation free' environment could be highly disruptive to schools; achieving it would also be impossible, if 'radiation free' means a total lack of RF signals in the environment" is invalid. All a radiation-free environment requires is hard-wiring with cables, and having cellphones switched off in the relevant area. It is certainly not "disruptive" or "impossible".
to: WiFi in schools - links to websites
Electrosensitivity by Graphical Designs for MedicalMainstreams, 2013. This website gives information only and does not constitute medical advice.
View on Mobile