Cleanse | NonStop Natural - Part 2
NonStop Natural
Baking Soda & Lemon Juice: Cancer Cure or Huge Scam?
June 10, 2016 by Tammy Robinson 1 Comment
Have you read the latest “miracle cancer cure that Big Pharma doesn’t want you to know about”? Sometimes it seems as if there is a new one every week, but this one certainly caught our eye. Several sites are claiming that simple and inexpensive baking soda, sometimes with or without lemon juice, depending on the site, is the latest cancer cure.
Is this true? Could it be that something as simple as baking soda and/or lemon juice is the cure that is in front of everyone’s nose but no one sees? Is Big Pharma trying to keep it a secret because there is no money to be made? Everyone knows cancer is big business, right? Is that why no “cure” has been found?
To find out the truth, we need to turn to science and look at the facts.
Personal Claims
You can find hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of people on social media sites claiming that they were “cured” of a wide variety of cancers by all kinds of “natural” cures. Everything from cannabis oil to apricot kernel oil, raw vegan diets to sunlight therapy.
While these all sound really convincing, the truth is that it is impossible to tell whether or not these people were actually cured from their cancer by using any particular treatment. First off, did they actually have cancer? What type? What stage? What other changes did they make in their lifestyle, if any?
Many times, people go through a particular cancer treatment (surgery, radiation, and/or chemo) before they start taking cannabis oil or whatever other changes they are making, but they fail to mention it. Why? Because there is no money in saying that the colloidal silver someone is selling might have worked, but chances are that it was the chemotherapy that did the trick.
This is why clinical trials, listed with peer reviewed scientific or medical journals, are so important. Personal anecdotes or videos are next to worthless. They benefit no one because they cannot be duplicated and, therefore, used by others.
The Truth about Lemons
Sour as they are, there is no denying that lemons, like other citrus fruits, are good for you. They are a terrific source of vitamin C, which the body needs to build new skin tissue and support the immune system. They also have potassium, B6, folic acid, and fiber.
Some studies are using a photochemical from lemons, called limonene, in trials with humans, to see if it can dissolve gallstones and results look good at this time.
There have been some studies, including this one from the University of Florida in 2002, which found that lemons, like many citrus fruits, might help inhibit breast and prostate cancer in studies done with mice, but take note: the large intestine does not absorb the limonoids that might inhibit cancer. For this to be effective, an extract would have to be created.
Another study from Texas A&M, found similar results. All citrus fruits contain limonoids, not just lemons, and that while they might be able to suppress cancer cells, there are currently no studies which show this conclusively. There are no studies showing that lemon juice is “10,000 times stronger than chemo”, or any other magic claim.
One last note on lemon juice, (or any other acidic compound), it won’t magically change from being acidic to alkaline once you consume it. If you have ever had indigestion, would you consider eating or drinking lemons to make it better? Of course not. If you don’t believe us, try it sometime. Have some lemon juice in water the next time you have a case of indigestion. That lemon juice will NOT be neutralizing the acid in your stomach.
You can’t change the neutral alkalinity of your blood due to process called homeostasis. If you don’t know what this is, you can read about it here.
Back to Baking Soda
You might have heard that cancer is “always white” and, therefore, is somehow related to fungus. The most common fungus name tossed around is Candida. The solution, you are told, is simple – baking soda. It kills fungus! It also kills cancer cells on contact. “Cancer cannot live in an alkaline environment”. You’ve probably heard this hundreds of times.
And they are right….kind of. It’s true, in a Petri dish; baking soda WILL kill cancer cells. But it will also kill any other cell you put in the dish. Nothing can live once it is doused with baking soda. Nothing.
Also, all cancers are not white. One quick Google search will quickly disprove this statement. (Just don’t do that search right before or after lunch!) So while there is no proof that Candida or any other fungus is the beginning of cancer, there is plenty of proof (going way back to at least 1902) that cancer is our own bodies going a little berserk.
This is one of the problems with “one size fits all” cancer “cures”. Cancer has at least 500 known malfunctions within the cells of the body. How can we expect one thing, no matter how natural or cleverly synthetic, will cure it?
The Dangers of Baking Soda
There is one thing that almost none of these sites will tell you – baking soda can actually be fatal if you consume too much of it. The key to life is moderation. The body is not designed to deal with excessive amounts (or complete absence) of ANYTHING, no matter how “natural” it might be. Sunshine, water, vitamins, food, can all be deadly if we have too much or not enough. The same is true of baking soda. Check out this example of a patient who tried injecting baking soda directly into her breast cancer at an “alternative medicine” clinic.
While there are studies being done to see if baking soda could somehow be used in therapy to help cancer patients, there is currently NO SCIENTIFIC PROOF that baking soda can do anything more than relieve the pain of mouth sores and ease indigestion.
It has been estimated that, based on the average weight of 150 pound person, that a dose of 12 grams of baking soda would be needed to attempt to counteract the acid produced by a one cubic millimeter tumor!
The Bottom Line
While social media sites are simply drowning in videos and personal testaments about everything from bleach enemas to cannabis oil, none of these are scientific evidence that something works for everyone or anyone at all!
If you haven’t done so yet, check out Wikipedia’s excellent list of proven cancer treatments that simply do not work.
What about all the cases of people who tried something, but died anyway? You don’t hear about those cases, do you? Why? Because it doesn’t sell.
This doesn’t mean that the natural world has nothing to offer us. The truth is that we simply haven’t found it yet. A cure for cancer will probably involve different therapies to suit all the different types of cancer that there are, but until something is proven, it’s just someone’s opinion and, let’s face it, everyone has one, right?
Filed Under: Anti-Cancer, Cleanse, Foods, Health, Healthy Living, How To, Natural, Shocking, Truth or Fiction Tagged With: alternative cancer treatment, lemon juice and baking soda, natural cancer cure, natural cancer treatment, truth about baking soda, truth about lemon juice, truth about natural cancer cures
Everything You Thought You Knew about Juicing and Cleanse Programs is Wrong!
May 5, 2016 by Tammy Robinson Leave a Comment
Well folks, despite what Gwyneth Paltrow might have told you, juicing and juice cleanses have official bit the bullet.
After more than 20 years of listening to celebrities and health fanatics tout the joys of kale juice, juicing for health has (thankfully) finally come to an end.
It wasn’t the fact that Paltrow, who claimed anyone could eat healthy, even those on food stamps, (her video of which was a complete disaster) was consuming $500 juice drinks for her breakfast (like everyone else on the planet), it wasn’t that Doug Evans, the Raw Food Priest, convinced investors that American’s would buy his $700 juicer (they didn’t). It’s hard to say what the actual reason was, but could it be that, over time, people just woke up to the truth.
Juice is healthy, but it isn’t everything. It won’t detox your body, it won’t keep you from becoming sick, and it won’t stop you from dying. In fact, extreme juicing is downright dangerous.
Regardless of what juicing companies will try to tell you (keep in mind that they have something to sell you, friends) the truth is that your body, just the way you are, does an excellent job of removing waste and toxic elements. Juice won’t do a damn thing; except for tasting good, causing diarrhea, and giving you nutrients without the benefit of fiber.
As a matter of survival, your body comes equipped to remove toxins all on its own. Your detox system involves the liver, the kidneys, and the colon. This trio of organs removes toxins, such as lead, pesticides, or something as dangerous as antifreeze, without any help from other foods or drinks.
Oh, those weren’t the toxins you had in mind? Which were you thinking of? Overuse of medications, such as Tylenol? Or one of the biggest toxins around…alcohol; was that the one you had in mind? Again, your liver will do this for you without any effort on your part.
If your liver quits working, you need to see a doctor ASAP. Juice will not regenerate your liver. No, not even if it has kale in it.
Now we aren’t down on juice. We like it. We drink it. We just don’t drink a gallon of it each day and believe that it is somehow doing anything more than giving us vitamins, antioxidants, and minerals. By the way, has anyone told you that your body is not a bank? You can fill a bank with money, add money to it every day and the money will pile up inside! Your body, however, only takes what it wants for the day or for that moment. Any extra nutrients (other than tiny amounts) are simply removed from the body. So, in essence, you are literally pissing your money away by drinking tons of juice every day, all day.
While drinking juice is all well and fine, selling people expensive juice mixes or juicing machines and misleading them into thinking that they are somehow cleansing their body is not only ridiculous, it borders on fraud.
You might have read that drinking only juice for a set number of days “allows the stomach or digestive system to rest”. Whoever said your stomach got tired? Your eyes work every day as well, but no one is suggesting that you cover your eyes for 3 to 14 days so they can rest.
Another popular claim is that juice does not need as much stomach acid to digest. OK. And? What is the point of that? Who said that your stomach needs to make fewer enzymes in order for your body to be healthy?
The last point we would like to make here is that whomever is telling you that the body needs to remove “excess” waste from the colon, and that juice cleanses are somehow the answer to that, is nothing more than a snake oil salesperson.
Feces, as gross as it is, are a natural part of the body and are actually GOOD for the colon. In case you haven’t heard it yet, people who suffer from digestive problems might be on the verge of having those problems solved as scientists have found that transplanting healthy feces to those with digestive problems (including weight problems) actually helps!
We find poop disgusting, so to the human mind, it must be akin to poison and it must be removed. This simply isn’t the case.
A couple of glasses of juice each day is a good thing. Eating the whole fruit is preferable, but if juice is your thing, by all means, enjoy it! We are not denying that a glass of fresh juice is better for you than those Frappuccinos. Just don’t think that drinking juice will save you from the grave or save you from grave illness.
Filed Under: Cleanse, Foods, Health, Herbs, How To, Natural, Organic, Plants, Produce, Toxins, Vegetables Tagged With: Detox, Juice cleanse, Juice cleanse program, Juicing, juicing for toxins, removing toxins, truth about juice cleanse, Truth about juicing, vegetable juice
« Previous Page
1
2
Categories
About
Air Quality
Alkaline diet
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Anti-Cancer
Antibiotics
Autism
B17
B17 Cancer Cure
Bacteria and Germs
Bitter Almonds
Cancer
Cancer cure hoax
Cancer Scam
Cannabis
Children
Cleaning
Cleanse
Cold and Flu
Contamination
Crystals
Dehydration
Dehydration dangers
Depression
Detox
Digestion
Do It Yourself
Essential Oils
Exercise
Fish
Foods
Gifts
Gluten Sensitivity
Glyphosate
GMOs
Hair and Skin
Health
Health Fads
Healthy Eating
Healthy Living
Herbs
How To
Insects
Laetrile
Longer Life
Mental Health
Monsanto
Natural
Nutrition
Off Beat
Oils
Organic
Pain Relief
pesticides
Pests
Plants
Produce
Seniors/Elderly
Shocking
Sleep
Soda
Soy
Spices
Supplements
Tips and Advise
Toxins
Truth
Truth or Fiction
Vaccines
Vegetables
Vitamins
Vitamins and Minerals
Water
Weight Loss
Women
Women's Health
Yoga
Zika Virus
Recent Stories
Top 5 Treadmills for 2017: We Have One for Every Budget and Every Space
Top 5 Bamboo Sheets of 2017: Super Soft and Super Earth Friendly
Top 10 Detox Teas to Cleanse Your Body After the Holidays
Make it a Dazzling New Year by Adding One Beautiful Thing
Top 10 Must Have Items for a Home Gym
Recent Comments
Bryan Yeubrey on Bitter Almonds and Cancer: Here is the Bitter Truth of It.
Sedric on Love Halo Cutie Oranges but Hate How They Are Grown? Read This!
Eni on Love Halo Cutie Oranges but Hate How They Are Grown? Read This!
Karen Linka on Love Halo Cutie Oranges but Hate How They Are Grown? Read This!
Annie Breglia on Love Halo Cutie Oranges but Hate How They Are Grown? Read This!
Copyright © 2019 · eleven40 Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in