Health | Niva-Is
Home
Privacy Policy
Money
Personal Finance
Contact Us
Saving
You are here:
Home »
Health
Category Archives for Health
The Effects Of HIV In The Human Body
July 25, 2017	/
Health	/
By	Scatter
The immune system is in charge of protecting us from attacking diseases. One important element of the immune system is the CD4 cell (one type of white blood cell). These cells protect against a variety of bacteria, viruses, and other germs. You can check to see if you get this virus. Visit our website for more information on Singapore HIV testing.
HIV infects the immune system. The virus enters the immune system in CD4 cells. This virus utilises CD4 cells to multiply itself thousands of times. This self-replicating virus will leave the CD4 cell and kill it at the same time. The more CD4 cells are dead, the immune system will be lower. Until finally, the immune system does not work. When this process occurs, the body will still feel healthy and no problem. This condition can last for 10 years or even more. And patients can spread the virus in this period.
Remember that everyone is at risk of HIV infection, regardless of age limit. But there are some groups of people who are at higher risk of HIV infection. They are:
– Injecting drug users
– People who make tattoos or do piercings.
– People who have unprotected sex either sex or heterosexual.
– People who live or travel frequently to areas with high HIV rates, such as Africa, Eastern Europe, Asia, and southern America.
– People who perform blood transfusions in areas with high HIV rates.
– People affected by other sexually transmitted infections.
– People who have sex with injecting drug users.
People who have recently become infected with HIV will experience symptoms like the flu. This occurs for approximately one month to two months after infection. Early symptoms such as fever, sore throat, and the appearance of a rash. But, some people who suffer from HIV do not feel the signs and symptoms for years. Just by having an HIV test, we can know for sure whether we are infected or not. The faster the HIV is detected, the treatment success rate will be higher. If you feel you are at risk of HIV infection, visit Elyon Family Clinic & Surgery immediately.
Causes of HIV And AIDS
July 25, 2017	/
Health	/
By	winds
The spread of HIV / AIDS virus is divided into two main groups, namely through unsafe sex and alternately for injecting drug users. Whether there is a symptom or not, an HIV-infected person can pass the virus on to others. HIV positive people more easily transmit the virus a few weeks after they catch it. Treatment of HIV will reduce the risk of spreading to others. Visit our website to get HIV Testing Singapore.
HIV is not as infectious as that to other people. This virus does not radiate within the air like a cough and flu virus. HIV lives in the blood and some body fluids. But liquids such as saliva, sweat, or urine can not transmit the virus to others. This is because the content of the virus in the liquid is not enough. The fluids that can transmit HIV into other people’s bodies are:
– Blood
– Anus wall
– Breast milk
– Sperm
– Vaginal fluid, including menstrual blood
HIV is not infected from kissing, saliva, bites, sneezing, sharing toiletries, towels, utensils, using the same toilet or pool, bitten by animals or mosquito-like insects. The main ways that viruses can enter the bloodstream are:
– Through open wounds on the skin.
– Through thin walls of the mouth and eyes.
– Through thin walls inside the anus or genitals.
– Through direct injection into the blood vessels using infected needles or injections.
The viral spread of the most important is by way of unprotected sex through the vagina and anal. Unsecured oral sex is also at risk of infection, but the risk is quite small. The spread of HIV through oral sex will increase if people who perform oral sex are canker sores or there are cuts in the mouth. Or have sex with people who have just been infected with HIV and have many viruses in his body. In addition to sex, HIV can be transmitted through:
– Blood transfusion.
– From mother to baby, whether during pregnancy, childbirth, or when breastfeeding.
– Sharing needles, good for piercing or tattooing.
– Sharing injections, especially for hot people (injecting drug users).
– Share sex aids with people living with HIV.
Recent Posts
How About Renting A Car Budget
Methods to Pick the Best Blender for Ice
Why Should We Choose Wholesale Plus Size Lingerie
Why Customer Loyalty Programs Are Effective For Any Business
Guide To Seek Authorised Money Lenders In Singapore
Categories
Automotive
Clothing
Customer Relationship Management
Drink&Food
General
Health
Money
Tags
lingerie greenis singapore std fast cash loans money lender Singapore reliable money lender Singapore wholesale plus size lingerie authorised money lender rent a car budget women's clinic tampines singapore hiv test licensed money lender authorised money lender Singapore best gynaecologist in singapore good money lender Singapore thomson medical gynae best moneylenders good gynae in singapore rent a car sg hiv pep singapore home hiv test best moneylenders in Signapore loyalty program best blender plus size lingerie licensed money lender Singapore singapore women clinic best blender for ice
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« May
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Copyright text 2017 by niva-is.net - Designed by
How About Renting A Car Budget - Methods to Pick the Best Blender for Ice - Why Should We Choose Wholesale Plus Size Lingerie - Why Customer Loyalty Programs Are Effective For Any Business - Guide To Seek Authorised Money Lenders In Singapore - Get Money From Licensed Money Lender Singapore - What Can A Licensed Money Lender Singapore Give You? - 4 Compulsory Questions Asked to Gynaecologist - The Effects Of HIV In The Human Body - Causes of HIV And AIDS - What You Have to Do for A Loan from Authorised Money Lender Singapore - Where To Get Cash If Your Next Paycheck Is Not Coming? - How to Choose a Good Money Lender in Singapore?