The Vaping Epidemic Sweeping America's High Schools - Confessions of Parenting- Family Lifestyle
Family
Blended Families
Parenting
Baby
Toddlers
Kids
Tweens
Teens
Marriage
Life & Style
Motherhood
Food
weekly meal plan
Around the Home
How to
Organization
Shop
Family
Blended Families
Parenting
Baby
Toddlers
Kids
Tweens
Teens
Marriage
Life & Style
Motherhood
Food
weekly meal plan
Around the Home
How to
Organization
Shop
The Vaping Epidemic Sweeping America’s High Schools
As parents, we need to be aware of teen vaping in high school. It’s a widespread epidemic! We have the perfect parent’s guide to teen vaping.
The Vaping Epidemic Sweeping America’s High Schools
Table of Contents
The Vaping Epidemic Sweeping America’s High Schools
The Vaping Epidemic is Sweeping the Nation in our High Schools.
What is Vaping?
No matter what your kids say, All JULL and Phix contain nicotine.
How Many Kids are Vaping?
But is Vaping Safe for Our Kids?
So, Why are High School Kids Vaping?
So What are the Signs that Your Kids are Vaping?
What are the Side Effects of Vaping?
No matter what your child says vaping is illegal for a minor to possess, buy, or smoke. You must be at least 18 years old.
Will Vaping Show Up on a Drug Test?
Vaping is an Epidemic
The other night I had a bunch of my son’s friends come over to hang out. We made delicious food together and ate, and I planned that they would probably play some games or something afterward.
Much to my surprise, they didn’t want to play games, they just wanted to sit around and talk. They talked about all kinds of things, dating, classes and high school in general. I was in and out of the room as they hung out. At one point, I walked into the room and they started talking to me. I sat down for a bit to talk with them.
Soon after I sat down, vaping was brought up. I guess you could call me a naive parent. I did not know much about what vaping was. Well, these good kids knew so much about it, including my son! They mentioned how kids are doing it at school on the buses and that it is something that is just done and acceptable.
At that moment, my heart sank… I was naive and had no idea this was going on around my kids. I knew at that point it was time to get smart about what vaping is, and who is vaping!
The Vaping Epidemic is Sweeping the Nation in our High Schools.
What is Vaping?
Vaping is basically an e-cigarette. A person that is vaping is basically inhaling and exhaling aerosol (or vapor) which comes from an e-cigarette or something similar. To vape, you basically have a device that has a mouthpiece, a battery, a cartridge for e-liquid. These are more commonly known as e juice and a heating element. The battery heats up the heating element which then turns the juice into an aerosol, then that is inhaled and then exhaled.
Vaping doesn’t produce tobacco smoke, but it does produce an aerosol which consists of particles that can contain toxic chemicals. These chemicals are linked to cancer, respiratory disease, and heart disease, and maybe even more than we are completely unaware of because of how new vaping is. Vaping is an epidemic sweeping America’s high schools.
E-cigarettes come in many forms. They can look like traditional cigarettes or cigars. But they can also look like everyday objects such as pens. These are becoming more and more popular because they are discrete and can be hidden, especially in high schools.
Each device has a memory stick which is called a Juuls. These are extremely concerning among parents because of the high amounts of nicotine content. Each Juul pod contains 5% nicotine, which equals 1 pack of cigarettes or 200 puffs. Would you believe me if I told you that some high schoolers are smoking through 1 Juul pod a day?
No matter what your kids say, All JULL and Phix contain nicotine.
Yes, it is true! All Jull and Phix contain nicotine. They range from very low to almost 36 milligrams per milliliter. And sadly, companies are targeting our kids by marketing to them with different E-juice flavors. Some of the E-juice flavors are berry punch, cotton candy and mint to get kids to want to try it more. Our kids are Inhaling one of the most addictive substances when they are vaping.
Because of the cool and trendy vaping devices and e-liquid flavors like cotton candy and fruit juice, teens are trying vaping in record numbers. This is a very concerning epidemic that is sweeping the nation!
How Many Kids are Vaping?
There are varying studies out there about how many kids are vaping. But surveys reveal that 2 million middle school and high school students vape often or routinely. Currently, 1 out of every 4 high schoolers is vaping with 10% of 8th graders also admitting they have vaped in the last month.
If the vaping epidemic continues by the time our children graduate high school, 3 out of 5 students will be vaping or would have tried it while in high school.
This is by far the most popular form of smoking among our kids. It is an epidemic sweeping the nation in middle school and in high schools. Some kids are using an entire JULL pod a day (equivalent to an entire pack of cigarettes)
Vaping is an epidemic sweeping the nation that our kids are very familiar with! They have either heard about it, heard others talk about it tried it, or know someone that has tried it. After all, the perception among teenagers is that it is completely safe because it contains no nicotine.
But is Vaping Safe for Our Kids?
Vaping is NOT safe for our kids! When your teenagers say vaping is safe they are wrong! It is not safe to use vape pens or e-cigarettes around kids. These products contain harmful chemicals. If kids drink the liquid in the vape pens or refills kids can get poisoned or even die. If the liquids touch their skin they can also get sick.
E-juice contains nicotine and nicotine is harmful. When a child’s undeveloped brain is exposed to vaping, they are is at a greater risk to become addicted to vaping long term.
The long-term effects of vaping is an increased risk of cancer and can cause other gene mutations. These are only effects that we are aware of. Vaping is such a new epidemic that there really isn’t much research or proof of other health issues it could possibly contribute to or cause.
Nicotine makes it harder for our kids to control their impulses.
Kids are using vaping as a gateway drug. They start by vaping e-juice flavors and move on to harder substances. 9% of students are now using marijuana in a vaping device. This causes long-term effects to learning and memory loss in our youth.
Vaping leads to a nicotine addiction. Unfortunately, most long-term effects are not yet known because of the newness of this. Yes, vaping has fewer chemicals than cigarettes, but it contains the same amount of nicotine, if not more! It may appear less harmful than cigarettes, but it is still harmful, if not more harmful.’
So, Why are High School Kids Vaping?
There are several direct reasons as to why kids are vaping. For adults they are vaping to be able to come off the nicotine slowly that are in cigarettes to eventually kick the habit altogether. For teenagers, this is far from the case. Kids are using vaping as a gateway to consuming tobacco and other drugs. The new trend is to replace e-juice with vaping marijuana.
Kids are vaping to fit in at school and with friends. To be rebellious, but also while feeling like it is “safe enough to do.” Kids are vaping for the sheer entertainment of it as well as the taste.
Seven other major reasons why kids are vaping is the low cost, they think it’s safe, they can do it inside, the odor is pleasant, they are trying to quit cigarettes and they like the social image it portrays to others.
It is a challenge to know if your child is vaping. This is because the vapor disappears quickly and leaves no residue. As parents, we need to talk with our kids about addiction and the risk of nicotine dependence when it comes to vaping.
So What are the Signs that Your Kids are Vaping?
Increased Thirst. Vaping removes hydration from your skin and mouth causing you to always be thirsty.
Nosebleeds. This goes along with the hydration being removed from your skin. Also the fact that they are exhaling through their noses.
Acne
Cutting Back on Caffeine
Dry cough
Wheezing bronchitis type symptoms
Shortness of breath difficulty breathing
Being Really Exhausted
Rapid Breathing
Pneumonia
Bloodshot eyes
Irritability if they are having nicotine withdrawals.
Less Perceptive Taste Buds. Your kids will start to think food lacks flavor and tastes very bland.
An unexplained sweet smell – if it’s not the scent of their perfume, but they have a sweet aroma surrounding them.
If you find unfamiliar USB drives, battery chargers or random spare parts. There are replacement parts for different parts of the vape in case they stop working.
Information from here.
What are the Side Effects of Vaping?
Kids that vape will have immunosuppressive effects similar to actual smokers.
Heartburn
Dry/ sore mouth
Headache
Tongue Inflammation
Black Tongue
Dizziness
Breathing problems
Chest pain
Increased Allergies
Sleepiness or sleeplessness
Nicotine poisoning
Popcorn lung – damage to the bronchioles in the lungs
Formaldehyde and cancer risk
Heart Attack- Vaping every day is linked to twice the risk of heart attacks and are more likely to have a heartache than those who don’t vape.
E-cigarettes can explode causing burns and other injuries
Drinking of e-liquids can be fatal. If your skin, eyes or mouth comes into contact with e-juice it can cause seizures, brain injury, and vomiting.
Information found here and here. For a GREAT resource detailing conclusive scientific research regarding potential harms of vaping go here.
No matter what your child says vaping is illegal for a minor to possess, buy, or smoke. You must be at least 18 years old.
Will Vaping Show Up on a Drug Test?
Many parents and kids wonder if vaping will show up on a drug test. A general drug test will not reveal the habit of vaping. But, there are two types of tests that can detect nicotine and cotinine (Cotinine is the product your body creates after you have inhaled nicotine.) levels in your system. Nicotine will leave your system 1-3 days after you quit using it, and cotinine will leave anywhere from 1 to 10 days after using.
You can also use hair tests to determine if your child has been vaping. These are more accurate and can be seen in hair 1-3 months later. In some cases, even up to a year later.
Vaping is an Epidemic
There is no other way to put it. Vaping is an epidemic that is sweeping the nation among our teenagers. It is time for parents to get smart about what vaping is and start talking to our teenagers about the risks of vaping. It is hard for parents, law enforcement, and school administrators to address the problem because it is spreading like wildfire.
It is time for us to stand up, talk with others and reach out to our local government to fight in Washington to get tougher laws on the vaping companies so that they stop marketing kids and teenagers with kid flavors and great tastes. Contact your congressman today to stop teenage vaping with tougher laws to help protect our teenagers and kids.
Did this article open your eyes to the dangerous widespread epidemic of teen vaping? Share this parent’s guide with your friends!
Michele
Michele is a Family Life Educator. She is a mom to 5 kids and loves helping others strengthen their families! When she is not blogging she is spending time with her family and running around drinking Diet Coke trying to get everything done!
Share this:
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
You Might love these posts too!
byMichele
7
Share on
You may also like
Kids , Motherhood , parenting
The Best Thing You Can Do For Your Kids: Tell Them Family Stories
Kids , Life Unedited , Motherhood , parenting
One of My Greatest Fears Came True
parenting , Step Families
7 Ways To Not Overstep your Boundaries with Stepkids
7 Comments
Mae
This is such good information to know. The more we as parents know, the better we can help to prevent instead of having to fix after the fact.
Loading...
January 17, 2019 at 11:34 am Reply
kid dealz
Wow. It is great that your kids and their friends will talk with you about this. It really is an epidemic and targeted to kids. Keep up the great info. Thank you.
Loading...
October 5, 2018 at 9:17 pm Reply
thegiftedgabber
It really is an epidemic as you say! It’s crazy the things kids get caught up in. I am a middle school teacher, and we even had a student pull one out in class and start using it a few weeks ago!! Insane!
Loading...
September 28, 2018 at 8:36 pm Reply
Kids are Going to Screw Up, It's What You Do at that Point That Matters - Confessions of Parenting
[…] of parenting is realizing that our kids are going to screw up. In fact, kids are going to screw up, a lot. Sometimes it will be big and most of the time it will […]
Loading...
September 27, 2018 at 2:16 pm Reply
Nicole
Thank you for the valuable info! It’s a scary awakening when our children (no matter their age) know more about something like this than we do!
Loading...
September 25, 2018 at 10:29 pm Reply
Sunny Jess
This is such an important topic because I don’t think a lot of parents really understand what vaping is or how to talk to kids about it. A lot of kids don’t really think of vaping as smoking because it isn’t a cigarette but the health benefits (or lack thereof I should say??) are awful, there is nothing healthy about them for developing brains and bodies of teenagers. Its so important that we are educated about the subject- thank you so much for posting this!
XXOO Sunny
http://heysunnyjess.com
Loading...
September 24, 2018 at 10:03 pm Reply
Ivy
I had no idea kids were doing this in highschool … how are they able to get away with it on a bus?
I liked the time when smoking became uncool, so different from when I was in highschool when EVERYONE smoked. Sad the resurgence is now vaping 🙁
Loading...
September 24, 2018 at 7:20 pm Reply
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Previous Post
5 Reasons Why Fewer Toys Are Better F...
Next Post
Kids are Going to Screw Up, It’...
Follow Us on Pinterest!
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 April 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016
Follow Us On IG!
Follow Me!
All photography and written text on this site are Copyright of Confessions of Parenting © 2019, unless otherwise noted.
Material may not be duplicated, published or re-written without permission. All rights reserved. Please send all inquiries to hello@confessionsofparenting.com.
We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
For all legalities, please see our Privacyand Disclosure for more details!
(c) 2019 Confessions of Parenting. All Rights Reserved - Designed and Developed by CityHouseDesign.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: