Medicine Use and Precautions | Kaiser Permanente buspirone 10 mg tablet | Kaiser Permanente
Kaiser Permanente Home
Navigation Menu - Opens a Simulated Dialog
Español
Georgia
Choose your region California - Northern California - Southern Colorado - Denver / Boulder / Northern / Mountain areas Colorado - Southern Georgia Hawaii Maryland / Virginia / Washington, D.C. Oregon / SW Washington Washington
Sign in to access care
Health & Wellness
Other Languages
Profile & Preferences
Español
Sign out
Button close - press enter or select to close menu
Why KP
Shop Plans
Doctors & Locations
Health & Wellness
My Health
Medical Record
Message Center
Appointments
Pharmacy
Coverage & Costs
Health & Wellness
Get started
Profiles & Preferences
Sign in to access care
Other Languages
Profile & Preferences
Español
Sign out
end of list
Español
Other Languages
Georgia
Choose your region California - Northern California - Southern Colorado - Denver / Boulder / Northern / Mountain areas Colorado - Southern Georgia Hawaii Maryland / Virginia / Washington, D.C. Oregon / SW Washington Washington
Search
All
All Doctors Facilities Classes Health Topics Drugs
Enter search terms
Search
Close search bar
How to get care
Find urgent care services in your area, including advice and appointment information.
My Medical Record
View and print details of your or your family member's medical record, including past visit and hospital stay information, test results, immunizations, health care reminders, and more.
Bill Pay
Get contact information and find out how to pay premiums, medical bills, and hospital bills online.
Health & Wellness Drug encyclopedia
Print
buspirone 10 mg tablet
Loading...
View More photos >
The photos shown are samples only Not all photos of the drug may be displayed. Your medication may look different. If you have questions, ask your pharmacist.
close popup
0140 Medication name
Generic name:
Buspirone - oral
Pronunciation
(bue-SPYE-rone)
Brand name(s)
Buspar
Uses
This medication is used to treat anxiety. It may help you think more clearly, relax, worry less, and take part in everyday life. It may also help you to feel less jittery and irritable, and may control symptoms such as trouble sleeping, sweating, and pounding heartbeat. Buspirone is a medication for anxiety (anxiolytic) that works by affecting certain natural substances in the brain (neurotransmitters).
How to use
Take this medication by mouth, usually 2 or 3 times a day or as directed by your doctor. You may take this medication with or without food, but it is important to choose one way and always take it the same way so that the amount of drug absorbed will always be the same.
Buspirone may come in a tablet that can be split to get the correct dose for you. Follow the manufacturer's Patient Instruction Sheet or ask your pharmacist how to split the tablet to get your dose.
Avoid eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice while taking this medication unless your doctor or pharmacist says you may do so safely. Grapefruit can increase the chance of side effects with this medicine. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more details.
Dosage is based on your medical condition and response to therapy. Use this medication regularly in order to get the most benefit from it. To help you remember, use it at the same times each day. When this medication is started, symptoms of anxiety (e.g., restlessness) may sometimes get worse before they improve. It may take up to a month or more to get the full effect of this medication.
Inform your doctor if your symptoms persist or worsen.
Side effects
Dizziness, drowsiness, headache, nausea, nervousness, lightheadedness, restlessness, blurred vision, tiredness, and trouble sleeping may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, notify your doctor or pharmacist promptly.
Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects.
Rarely, patients taking buspirone may develop movement disorders such as shakiness (tremors), muscle stiffness, mask-like facial expression, jerky walking movements, or a condition known as tardive dyskinesia. In some cases, these conditions may be permanent. Tell your doctor right away if you develop any unusual/uncontrolled movements (especially of the face, mouth, tongue, arms, or legs).
Seek immediate medical attention if any of these rare but serious side effects occur:
easy bleeding/bruising
shortness of breath
chest pain
fast/irregular heartbeat
A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is unlikely, but seek immediate medical attention if it occurs. Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction may include:
rash
itching/swelling (especially of the face/tongue/throat)
severe dizziness
trouble breathing
This is not a complete list of possible side effects. If you notice other effects not listed above, contact your doctor or pharmacist .
In the US -
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or at www.fda.gov/medwatch.
In Canada - Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to Health Canada at 1-866-234-2345.
Precautions
Before taking buspirone, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.
This medication should not be used if you have certain medical conditions. Before using this medication, consult your doctor if you have:
kidney problems
liver problems
Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history, especially of:
bipolar disorder (manic-depression)
Parkinson's disease
This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy. Alcohol or marijuana (cannabis) can make you more dizzy or drowsy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do anything that needs alertness until you can do it safely. Avoid alcoholic beverages. Talk to your doctor if you are using marijuana (cannabis).
If you are taking other medications for anxiety, do not suddenly stop them unless directed by your doctor. Buspirone will not prevent withdrawal symptoms from other medications, and your dose may need to be lowered slowly when you switch to buspirone. Discuss your treatment plan with your doctor. If you experience withdrawal symptoms, tell your doctor right away.
During pregnancy, this medication should only be used when clearly needed. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant before using this medication. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
It is unknown if this drug passes into breast milk. However, similar drugs pass into breast milk and may have undesirable effects on a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breastfeeding.
Drug interactions
See also How to Use section.
Drug interactions may change how your medications work or increase your risk for serious side effects. This document does not contain all possible drug interactions. Keep a list of all the products you use (including prescription/nonprescription drugs and herbal products) and share it with your doctor and pharmacist. Do not start, stop, or change the dosage of any medicines without your doctor's approval.
Taking MAO inhibitors with this medication may cause a serious (possibly fatal) drug interaction. Avoid taking MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid, linezolid, methylene blue, moclobemide, phenelzine, procarbazine, rasagiline, safinamide, selegiline, tranylcypromine) during treatment with this medication. Most MAO inhibitors should also not be taken for two weeks before and after treatment with this medication. Ask your doctor when to start or stop taking this medication.
Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist of all prescription and nonprescription/herbal products you may use, especially of:
antidepressants (including SSRIs such as fluoxetine, tricyclic antidepressants such as amitriptyline/nortriptyline, trazodone)
haloperidol
drugs that slow down the removal of buspirone from your body by affecting certain liver enzymes including azole antifungals (such as itraconazole, ketoconazole), ritonavir, nefazodone, diltiazem
drugs that speed up the removal of buspirone from your body by affecting certain liver enzymes including rifamycins (such as rifampin, rifabutin), corticosteroids (such as dexamethasone), and certain anticonvulsants (such as phenytoin, phenobarbital)
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness such as opioid pain or cough relievers (such as codeine, hydrocodone), alcohol, marijuana (cannabis), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, lorazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants (such as carisoprodol, cyclobenzaprine), or antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine).
Check the labels on all your medicines (such as allergy or cough-and-cold products) because they may contain ingredients that cause drowsiness. Ask your pharmacist about using those products safely.
This medication may interfere with certain medical/laboratory tests (including brain scan for Parkinson's disease), possibly causing false test results. Make sure laboratory personnel and all your doctors know you use this drug.
Overdose
If someone has overdosed and has serious symptoms such as passing out or trouble breathing, call 911. Otherwise, call a poison control center right away. US residents can call their local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. Canada residents can call a provincial poison control center.
Notes
Do not share this medication with others.
Keep all regular medical and laboratory appointments. If you are also taking trazodone, liver function tests may be performed regularly to check for side effects. Consult your doctor for more details.
Missed dose
If you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember. If it is near the time of the next dose, skip the missed dose. Take your next dose at the regular time. Do not double the dose to catch up.
Storage
Store the US product in a tightly closed container at room temperature below 86 degrees F (30 degrees C) away from light and moisture.
Store the Canadian product in a tightly closed container at room temperature 59-86 degrees F (15-30 degrees C) away from light and moisture.
Do not store in the bathroom. Keep all medicines away from children and pets.
Do not flush medications down the toilet or pour them into a drain unless instructed to do so. Properly discard this product when it is expired or no longer needed. Consult your pharmacist or local waste disposal company for more details about how to safely discard your product.
Important note
HOW TO USE THIS INFORMATION: This is a summary and does NOT have all possible information about this product. This information does not assure that this product is safe, effective, or appropriate for you. This information is not individual medical advice and does not substitute for the advice of your health care professional. Always ask your health care professional for complete information about this product and your specific health needs.
Information last revised February 2019.
Copyright(c) 2019 First Databank, Inc.
Selected from NATIONAL DRUG DATA FILE (NDDF) data included with permission and copyrighted by First Databank, Inc., 2019. This copyrighted material has been downloaded from a licensed data provider.
The above information is intended to supplement, not substitute for, the expertise and judgment of your health care professional. You should consult your health care professional before taking any drug, changing your diet, or commencing or discontinuing any course of treatment.
RESOURCES
Check which drugs your plan covers
Refill prescriptions online
Search for vitamins and natural medicines
SHARE THIS ARTICLE
Find care
Find care
Advice
Routine Care
Urgent Care
Emergency Care
Find Doctors & Locations
Mental Health
Health Classes
Care When Traveling
Our organization
Our organization
About KP
Patient Quality & Safety
News & Views
Commitment to the Community
Diversity & Inclusion
Awards & Accreditations
Annual Report
Careers
Media Inquiries
Member support
Member support
New Member Welcome
Forms & Publications
Member Assistance
Member Services
Medical information requests
Visit our other sites
Visit our other sites
Individual & Family Plans
Medicaid/Medi-Cal
Medicare
Affordable Care Act
For Businesses
For Federal Employees
Broker Support
Language
Español
Other Languages
Follow Us
twitter Icon
facebook Icon
youtube Icon
pinterest Icon
instagram Icon
Accessibility
Nondiscrimination Notice
Privacy
Terms & Conditions
Rights & Responsibilities
Site Policies
Disaster Planning
Technical Information
Site Map
Contact Site Manager
Selecting these links external site icon will take you away from KP.org. Kaiser Permanente is not responsible for the content or policies of external websites. Details
Kaiser Permanente health plans around the country: Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., in Northern and Southern California and Hawaii • Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of Colorado • Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of Georgia, Inc., Nine Piedmont Center, 3495 Piedmont Road NE, Atlanta, GA 30305, 404-364-7000 • Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of the Mid-Atlantic States, Inc., in Maryland, Virginia, and Washington, D.C., 2101 E. Jefferson St., Rockville, MD 20852 • Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of the Northwest, 500 NE Multnomah St., Suite 100, Portland, OR 97232 • Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of Washington or Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of Washington Options, Inc., 601 Union St., Suite 3100, Seattle, WA 98101
Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to read PDFs.
© 2018 Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
Kaiser Permanente health plans around the country: Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., in Northern and Southern California and Hawaii • Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of Colorado • Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of Georgia, Inc., Nine Piedmont Center, 3495 Piedmont Road NE, Atlanta, GA 30305, 404-364-7000 • Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of the Mid-Atlantic States, Inc., in Maryland, Virginia, and Washington, D.C., 2101 E. Jefferson St., Rockville, MD 20852 • Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of the Northwest, 500 NE Multnomah St., Suite 100, Portland, OR 97232 • Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of Washington or Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of Washington Options, Inc., 601 Union St., Suite 3100, Seattle, WA 98101
Copyright © 2017 Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
Drug Encyclopedia
Importante
No volver a mostrar esto.
Cancelar
Continuar
Want to stay signed on?
Sign Off
Stay signed on
We’re taking you to Kaiser Permanente Washington
Cancel
Continue