Mosquito Borne Diseases Symptoms And Treatment - Please Shouldn't Ignore Mosquito Bites!
Home
About
Contact
Disclaimer
Amazon Disclosure
Bug Zapper
Bug Fogger
Trap
Repellent
Insecticide
DIY
Advice
A Guide on Bug Zapper Maintenance & Cleaning
6 Important Signs, It’s Time to Buy a Mosquito Zapper For 2019
6 Reason Why Bug Zapper is Convenient, Secure And Effective For Outdoor Use
Infographic
Blog
Home » Blog » Mosquito Borne Diseases Symptoms And Treatment – Please Shouldn’t Ignore Mosquito Bites
Mosquito Borne Diseases Symptoms And Treatment – Please Shouldn’t Ignore Mosquito Bites
115 2 comments
Quick Navigation
1 Listed below are the most common Mosquito Borne diseases:
1.1 US Mosquitoes Cases study
2 ARBOVIRAL ENCEPHALITIDES
2.1 Symptoms
2.2 Treatment
3 DENGUE FEVER
3.1 Symptom of the mild one
3.2 Symptom of the severe one
4 MALARIA
4.1 Symptoms
4.2 The life threatening symptoms are
5 WEST NILE VIRUS
5.1 Symptoms of the mild one
5.2 Symptoms of the severe one
6 HEARTWORM
7 Yellow Fever
7.1 Symptoms
8 CHIKUNGUNYA
8.1 Symptoms
8.2 Treatment
9 ZIKA
9.1 Symptoms
10 Wrapping up!
Mosquito borne diseases are the diseases that are caused by the bite of mosquitoes. Not only the persons that suffer from the illness but the cats and dogs also suffer from such disease that the mosquito causes. Unfortunately the virus that the mosquito carries does not cause any damage to the insect itself, wish it could! Yet once they transmit the virus through the bite, it can cause severe harm to the people that can lead to death as well.
World wide there are between 500,000 and 1,000,000 people who die from mosquito borne diseases each year. Most of these occur in or near the equator regions, Asia and in the southern hemisphere. According to WHO the (World Health Organization) Dengue is the most common mosquito-borne viral disease coming from a mosquito bite.
In the United States of America, West Niles Virus is the most common and occurrences have exploded in 2017.
Hence, in this write I’ll be putting light to those diseases that our dear mosquitoes present us. There are several diseases that you will find as a result of insect bite. We can only wish these diseases could kill the mosquitoes instead of ruining us!
So, here are the names and symptoms of the diseases that are caused for the bite of mosquitoes.
Listed below are the most common Mosquito Borne diseases:
Found in the US & North America
West Niles Virus a strain of Japanese encephalitis
Eastern equine encephalitis
Western equine encephalitis
La Crosse encephalitis
St. Louis encephalitis,[2]
Malaria
Exotic vector-borne diseases most common outside North America
Dengue fever
Chikungunya fever
Yellow fever virus
Rift Valley Fever
Filarial nematodes such as Dirofilaria immitis. [4] Heartworms affecting animals and rarely humans.
US Mosquitoes Cases study
In the US malaria is almost non existent except for a few cases which are most likely transmitted by foreign travelers who are infected by the disease.
How likely am I to get sick from a mosquito bite?
I wish I could give you a clear answer it but it depends on a number of factors. This includes your location, the types of mosquitoes in that location, and how many people birds or animals are infected with a virus within a short distance of wherever you may be due to the following factors.
A mosquito must be infected with a disease before it can be passed onto the human population.
Not all types of mosquitoes carry all mosquito born diseases.
Not every person will have a reaction to a mosquito bite even if the mosquito or the person is infected.
In the US, though it is a real possibility to be infected with a disease there is a very low percentage of people who will actually get sick from a mosquito borne disease.
West Niles Virus is the most common mosquito borne disease in the United States and Canada.
There are less than 5000 cases reported each year in North America. This being a low percentage of the total population makes it most likely you will not get a disease from a mosquito bite in the US.
However you should take precautions because serious problems from mosquito borne disease including death can occur if you are infected and have a reaction to the disease.
If you are traveling or live in an area where vector diseases are very common your chances increase exponentially over areas where these diseases are not so common. In heavily infested areas it is imperative that precautions be taken.
ARBOVIRAL ENCEPHALITIDES
Mosquitos take the virus from the birds and this virus reproduces inside the insect. The mosquito carries it around and once that mosquito bites you, you get infected. ARBOVIRAL ENCEPHALITIDES mostly do no transmit from person to person.
Symptoms
Inflammation of the brain.
Hemorrhagic fevers that cause harm to blood vessels, bleeding out of leaky blood vessels, and yes fever.
Febrile diseases, that include a fever accompanied by rashes sometimes.
headache
weakness
vomiting
fatigue
nausea
dizziness
general body aches
sleepiness
Treatment
Drink lots of fluids to avoid dehydration
Get plenty of rest.
Follow the food chart that the doctor will suggest.
DENGUE FEVER
Mild dengue illness can lead to a high fever with joint and muscle pain and rashes. Dengue hemorrhagic fever which is a severe form of fever causes a sudden drop in blood pressure, severe bleeding, and death.
Symptom of the mild one
Dengue fever causes a high fever that reaches up to 104 F degrees.
Blood vessels often become damaged and leaky.
Headache.
Rash
Muscle, bone and joint pain
Pain behind the eyes
Nausea
Swollen glands
Vomiting.
Symptom of the severe one
Persistent vomiting
Severe abdominal pain
Blood in your urine, stools or vomit
Bleeding from your gums or nose
Fatigue
Difficult or rapid breathing
Bleeding under the skin, which might look like bruising
Irritability or restlessness
Cold or clammy skin (shock).
MALARIA
Malaria is one of the life-threatening diseases. It is basically transferred through the bite of the infected Anopheles mosquito. The infected mosquito carries the Plasmodium parasite and when it bites you, the parasite gets into your bloodstream and then to the liver. And then it starts to infect red blood cells, that eventually causes malaria disease.
Symptoms
Shaking chills that ranges from moderate to severe.
profuse sweating
high fever
nausea
headache
vomiting
diarrhea
abdominal pain
muscle pain
anemia
coma
convulsions
bloody stools
The life threatening symptoms are
organ failure of the kidneys, liver, or spleen
swelling of the blood vessels of the brain, or cerebral malaria
a buildup of fluid in the lungs that causes pulmonary edema or breathing problems.
low blood sugar
anemia due to the destruction of red blood cells
WEST NILE VIRUS
This one is a viral infection basically spread by mosquitoes. Majority of the people who are infected with West Nile virus either do not develop signs or symptoms or have only minor ones, like fever or mild headache. Many of the people developed serious illness that includes inflammation of the spinal cord or brain.
Symptoms of the mild one
Fever
Body aches
Headache
Diarrhea
Skin rash
Vomiting
Fatigue
Symptoms of the severe one
Partial paralysis or muscle weakness.
Seizures.
Tremors or muscle jerking.
High fever.
Stupor or coma.
Disorientation or confusion.
Severe headache.
Stiff neck.
HEARTWORM
This is a parasitic roundworm that is spread from one host to other via the bite of mosquito that carry the infective heartworm larvae. It’s a type of a small thread-like worm which is filarial worm that causes filariasis. They cause severe problems especially for dogs. A mature heartworm can grow up to 12 inches long.
Heartworm disease is categorized in three classes.
Class I heartworm disease is often asymptomatic, it means that it exhibits no visible symptoms.
Class II patients basically suffer from coughing and unusual intolerance to exercise.
Class III shows symptoms of anemia, fainting spells, exercise intolerance, and even right-sided chronic heart failure.
Yellow Fever
Yellow fever is another viral infection cause by mosquitoes. This illness is most common in the Southern regions of South America, and Africa. Like most diseases, children and older people are more susceptible.
Symptoms
Those who contract this disease will experience symptoms around four days later. Yellow fever causes fever, nausea, and pain. Jaundice, and liver damage can also occur, which is where the virus gets its name from. This initially phase lasts 3 days. Then there is a usually remission. Sometimes a third toxic phase starts after this. This can result in failure of the heart, liver, and kidneys. People may also experience hemorrhaging, seizures, delirium or comas, and sometimes death.
There is no real treatment for Yellow Fever. However, blood can be replaced when hemorrhaging, or dialysis for kidney failure.
CHIKUNGUNYA
Chikungunya is disease caused by the bite of Aedes mosquito and the mosquito will mainly bite during the day. The symptoms usually start to exhibit within 3 to 7 days after being bitten by an infected mosquito. There are no vaccines for this disease.
Symptoms
Fever
joint pain.
Headache.
rash
joint swelling.
Vomit.
Treatment
Drink fluids to prevent dehydration
Get plenty of rest.
Take medicine like paracetamol to reduce pain.
Don’t take aspirin or other anti-inflammatory non-steroidal drugs.
ZIKA
Zika fever is usually spread by the bite of Aedes type mosquitoes. It can also transmit for the infected person as well. If a mosquito takes the blood of an infected person, it can pass those viruses to other people through the bites. Infections of the pregnant women can spread to the baby.
Symptoms
People who get this virus suffer from a fever, muscle or joint pain, rash, pink eye initially. The virus cause more serious problems like in case of Guillain-Barre syndrome and microcephaly which is like a birth defect. If one gets Guillain-Barre, it will lead him to paralysis. And if one get Microcephaly disorder it will cause a baby’s head to be small and not fully developed.
Wrapping up!
So these are the mosquito borne diseases that are quite popular throughout the world just because of the bite of blood sucking mosquitoes. These diseases sometimes can be mild and sometimes it can lead to severe level. Although many treatments have been discovered to get rid of the disease easily, so if you stay under doctor’s observation, it will go away.
But I would rather suggest you to keep yourself away from the mosquito bite. If you take all the precautions that will keep the mosquitoes at bay, there are marginal chances of getting infected.
Relevant Resources:
What Type Of Disease Are Mosquitoes Spread
Get Rid of Mosquitoes Inside The House [Totally Natural]
Homemade Mosquito Repellent
Get Rid of Cockroaches in Apartment Building
Best Organic Insecticide For Vegetable & Flower Garden
Previous
6 Deadly Disease that Are spread by Mosquitoes and How to Prevent Mosquito Bites?
Next
How to Get Rid of Bed Bugs in Your Mattress Immediately - Importent Tips For 2019
Rita Washington
Rita Washington is a writer who was born in Boston. I'd like to welcome you to my site, thepesthunter.com. People always ask me why I'm so happy. And I just tell them I like a bug-free life! She is passionate in gardening. Rita have more than 4 years experience in gardening, planting & others. I'll do my best to write informative articles and help you become as happy as I am -- all because I am bug free!! Contact with me!
Related Articles
12 Best Way To Get Rid Of Bed Bugs Forever
What is The Difference Between Bug Zappers and Mosquito Traps?
How to Stop Mosquito Bites – 8 Best Ways For Your Home, Yard & Garden
Garden Pest Control: Safety Tips to Homeowner For Using Pesticides in 2019
How To Get Rid Of Roaches With Borax? – One Of The Best Method For Killing Roaches
How To Get Rid Of Bugs In Your House Naturally? – 6 Easy Ways To Bug Proof Your Home
2 Comments
Reply
Yasodha October 16, 2018 at 12:38 pm
Give home remedies to cure all above fevers
Reply
Pei Toppings December 29, 2018 at 9:07 pm
Incredible! This blog looks exactly like my old one! It’s on a totally different topic but it has pretty much the same layout and design. Outstanding choice of colors!
Leave a reply Cancel reply
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Search
Follow Us
Popular Posts
Comments
Best Bug Zapper Reviewed in 2019 – Number 7 Works Absolutely Stunning!
3191
7 Best Indoor Bug Zapper Review – Which One You Should Buy in 2019?
2246
5 Plus Stinger Bug Zapper Reviews For 2019 – Which One Will You Want to Buy?
1182
Best Bug Bomb Fogger For 2019 – With Complete Buying Guide
944
How to Get Rid of Cockroaches in Apartment Building – Effective Way For 2019
912
Nadya Jones Just what I need for my beach house. I was looking for a way to deal with mosq... Best Mosquito Traps Reviews For 2019 – Which One Will You want to Buy?
Cute Hedgehog Ahaa, its nice conversation on the topic of this piece of writing at this plac... 7 Best Indoor Bug Zapper Review – Which One You Should Buy in 2019?
Charline Its like you read my mind! You seem to know a lot about this, like you wrote t... Pest Control Phoenix [ Infographic ]
manicure I think the admin of this website is truly working hard in favor of his websit... 7 Best Indoor Bug Zapper Review – Which One You Should Buy in 2019?
Jim I could not resist commenting. Exceptionally well written! Way cool! Some ... How To Get Rid Of Bugs In Your House Naturally? – 6 Easy Ways To Bug Proof Your Home
Top Categories
Advice
Blog
Bug Fogger
Bug Zapper
DIY
Infographic
Insecticide
Repellent
Trap
Recent Publish
12 Best Way To Get Rid Of Bed Bugs Forever
Best Roach Fogger Reviews [Updates on 2019] – Ultimate Buying Guide For Buyers
Best Bed Bug Traps For 2019 – Do You Want to Know, Which One Will You Need?
5 Best Bed Bug Steamers For 2019 – Number 3 is Absolutely Stunning
Best Insecticide For Vegetable Garden in 2019 – Take a Look Which One is Effective For Your Garden?
How Do You Choose Best Electric Fly Swatter in 2019? – This Will Help You Decide!
Tags
BUG ZAPPER INSECT ZAPPER MOSQUITO ZAPPER OUTDOOR BUG GADGETS OUTDOORS PEST CONTROL
Deal of the day
Flowtron FC-8800 Diplomat Fly Control Device
Already Sold: 12 Available: 16
75 %
Hurry Up! Offer ends soon.
days
0
0
hours
0
0
minutes
0
0
seconds
0
0
Top Categories
Advice
Blog
Bug Fogger
Bug Zapper
DIY
Infographic
Insecticide
Repellent
Trap
About Author
Rita Washington is a writer who was born in Boston. I’d like to welcome you to my site, the pest hunter dot com. People always ask me why I’m so happy. And I just tell them I like a bug-free life! She is passionate in gardening. Rita have more than 4 years experience in gardening, planting & others. I’ll do my best to write informative articles and help you become as happy as I am — all because I am bug free!! Contact with me!
Search Your Top Choices
Follow Us
© ThePestHunter.com 2019. All rights reserved.