Morphine & Surgery - Drug Usage, Side Effects & Risks
icon-circle-arrow-up icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
Morphine Sulfate: Drug Information
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Surgery
Recovery
Common Procedures
Preparation
Plastic Surgery
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Surgery Recovery
Morphine Sulfate: Drug Information
What You Need To Know About Morphine
Print
By Jennifer Whitlock, RN, MSN, FN | Medically reviewed by a board-certified physician
Updated March 15, 2019
Show Article Table of Contents
Other Names Administration Side Effects
Risks Precautions Tolerance and Addiction
View All
Back To Top
Echo/Getty Images
More in Surgery
Recovery
Common Procedures
Preparation
Plastic Surgery
Morphine Sulfate is a narcotic opioid analgesic, which means it's a drug that provides the same type of pain relief as opium derived from the poppy plant. Morphine is a powerful pain reliever used for both acute (short term) and chronic pain. It is also used, much less frequently, as a cough suppressant, for difficulty breathing and to stop diarrhea.
Morphine was first purified from the opium poppy in the early 1800s. But poppy-based medicines similar to morphine were used as early as the 1500s. It is one of many medications commonly used during and after surgery.
Centuries later, morphine is available in a wide variety of forms including long and short acting forms, and is used to treat pain caused by a variety of diseases, illnesses and injuries. Morphine, is effective, inexpensive and readily available, which makes it a valuable medication around the world.
Names For Morphine
Morphine is prescribed under a variety of names, abbreviations and both brand and generic names. Those names include MS Contin, Avinza, Kadian, Oramorph, MOS, Duramorph, Morphitec, MS, Roxanol, and epidural morphine.
How It's Administered
Morphine is available in a variety of forms, and it can be given as an injection, pill, epidural, oral solution, suppository or sublingually (under the tongue). Taking morphine as directed is important, as are realistic expectations. Some pain is to be expected and does not mean that more pain medication is necessary.
Side Effects
Common side effects of morphine include:
Constipation: After surgery, it is important to prevent constipation, which can become a major complication.
Decreased coughing
Loss of appetite
Sleepiness
Dizziness
Associated Risks
Every drug has risks, and morphine is no exception. Risks are increased with higher doses, long-term use and especially inappropriate use without a prescription. To minimize these risks, follow the instructions on your prescription and only take the medication when appropriate for pain control.
Depressed breathing (breathing too slowly or too shallowly, including respiratory failure and death)
Headache
Confusion
Memory problems
Severe constipation
Anxiety
Memory problems
Sleep disturbances
Tolerance
Addiction
Precautions
Patients who are nursing should consult their physician before taking morphine, as it may be expressed in breast milk. In pregnant women, prolonged use of morphine may result in the baby experiencing morphine withdrawal shortly after birth.
Patients with constipation may experience a worsening of symptoms. Those with other intestine conditions should use morphine with caution as it can slow digestion and result in a worsening condition. Morphine should also be used with caution in people with respiratory conditions including COPD or asthma.
The elderly may be more sensitive to morphine. Their dosages may need to be adjusted to prevent an overdose or pronounced side effects.
Tolerance, Addiction, and Abuse
Morphine, like many prescription drugs, may require larger doses for pain control when used for extended periods of time. Over time, the body can develop a tolerance for the medication and will require more medication to experience the same level of effectiveness.
People with chronic pain who use morphine may become physically dependent on the medication, meaning that they will experience signs and symptoms of withdrawal when they do not take the drug. Drug dependence does not necessarily mean the drug needs to be stopped. For example, a patient being treated for cancer-related pain could become physically dependent on morphine. However, the drug will continue to be given as needed for pain relief.
Addiction is not the same as dependence. Addiction is a chronic and relapsing brain condition that involves compulsive drug seeking and use, usually with negative consequences. Addiction is a component of opioid use disorder. Opioid use disorder can also involve mixing opioids with other drugs such as alcohol and taking larger or more frequent doses than necessary for pain management.
A Word From Verywell
Morphine is a drug that has been used for decades with great success in treating pain. While addiction and opioid use disorder remain a major problem in the United States, when taken appropriately morphine remains both safe and effective for short-term use. Long-term use should be monitored closely and will be safest when taking the minimum amount to decrease pain to tolerable levels.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Sign up for our Health Tip of the Day newsletter, and receive daily tips that will help you reach your 2018 goals.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Morphine. University of Maryland Medical Center.
Continue Reading
Article
Fentanyl: What You Should Know About This Pain Medication
Article
Percocet After Surgery: What You Should Know
Article
What You Should Know About the Pain Medication Dilaudid
Article
What's in Your IV Pain Meds?
Article
Common Types of Post-Surgery Pain and How to Fix Them
Article
How and Why Narcan Is Used to Treat Pain Medication Overdoses
Article
Know the Risks of General Anesthesia Before Surgery
Article
Toradol: Narcotics Aren't Necessary For Pain Relief After Surgery
Article
Surgery and Versed (Midazolam)
List
There Is No Way to Prevent This Kind of Hernia
Article
What to Expect During Liver Function Tests
Article
Ativan Information: What You Should Know After Your Surgery
Article
These Are the Commonly Used Medications Before and After Surgery
Article
What You Need to Know About Vascular Grafts
Article
What You Should Know About Kidney Transplant Surgery
Article
Trouble Pooping After Surgery? Here's How to Fix It
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more