Urine Therapy
Wordpress Themes
Home
Our Blog
Alternative Health Directory
About Us
Contact
Urine Therapy
Urine therapy is an extremely specialized branch of alternative treatment. This treatment would involve an external application of human urine to an individual for medicinal or pleasurable purposes. One who practices urine therapy is an uropath.
Believers of this type of treatment claim that urine has many curative powers. There are many countries that have traditionally used urine as a type of medicine for many centuries. Ayurveda has a branch of urine therapy called Amaroli. Some people believe that drinking urine has healing benefits too. Other cultures used it as a form of mystical and spiritual healing powers. Medicinally it has not proven to be very effective and sometimes harms the person taking it. Sometimes the patient would get weak or get general-dropsy. In the far east, the Chinese treat injuries by first sprinkiling urine on them to prevent infection. It is alos taken internally and is said to help and stimulate circulation.
Some doctors recently have said that urine therapy could be potentially helpful for the treatment of cancer. There have be one or two cases whereby some positive effects have taken place. The doctors state that because cancer cells release antigens that also are in urine, taken orally, could inspire the lymphatic system of the intestines to create antibodies. Saying that there has been no large scientific study to suggest that urine can be used as a treatment for cancer and therefore cannot be proven to be an effective cure.
Although there is criticms widely spread throughout the use of urine therapy, doctors have known for a long time about hormone metabolites being present in urine including corticosteroids. They have anti-inflammatory powers that when absorbed through the skin or ingested, can be effective. that said, there are many serious side effects relsated to urine therapy and it is therefore not advised to carry out such procedures or try anything of this nature without a proper consultation from a qualified doctor or physician.
It continues to be a debate today and will be for a long time. Alternative methods for healing are not supported by scientific evidence which is the reason they come under the umbrella of alternative medicine. People are turning to such methods because they have exhausted all conventional methods or simply want to take a more natural approach. Whatever the reason, it is important to go to a registered practitioner who is licensed by the correct body.
Bach Flower Therapy
Bio-Ching
Biofeedback
Bioharmonics
Breathwork
Buteyko
Chelation Therapy
Chinese Medicine
Chiropractic
Coaching
Colonic Cleansing
Color Therapy
Complimentary Medicine
Complex Homeopathy
Coning
Consegrity
Craniosacral Therapy
Crystals
Dolphin
Energy Healing
Eye Movement Desensitization Reprocessing (EMDR)
Facilitated Communication
Faith Healing
Flower Essences
Frontier Medicine
Gemstone Therapy
Healing Touch
Holistic Medicine
Homeopathy
Huna
Integrative Medicine
Intuitive Healer
Iridology
Isopathy
Joy Touch
Kirlian Photography
Meditation
Magical Thinking
Massage Therapy
Microacupuncture
Music Therapy
Naturopathy
Neuro-Linguistic Programming
New Age Psychotherapies
Nosode
Osteopathy
Oriental Bodywork
Orthomolecular Medicine
Ozone therapy
Palmtherapy
Polarity therapy
Pranic Healing
Prayer
Psychic Surgery
Qigong
Quackery
Reiki
Rolfing
Therapeutic Touch
Urine Therapy
Menu:
Alternative Health
Directory
Blog
Blog Categories:
Foods That Heal
Alternative Health Directory:
Main Categories
Acupuncture
Addictions
Applied Kinesiology
Aromatherapy
Ayurveda
Biofeedback
Chinese Medicine
Chiropractic
Education
Feng shui
Herbs
Holistic Medicine
Homeopathy
Hypnotherapy
Life Coaching
Massage Therapy
Meditation
Natural Therapies
Naturopathy
Nutrition
Organizations
Practitioners
Qigong
Reflexology
Reiki
Vitamins & Supplements
Weight Loss
Wellness Centers
Yoga
Links:
Bookmarks: