Natural Ways to Overcome Nausea during First Trimester - Simple Indian Mom
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Google Plus
Linkedin
YouTube
Bloglovin
Tumblr
RSS Feed
Email
Simple Indian Mom
The Ultimate Guide To Mindful Parenting
Menu
Mindfulness
Healthy Family
Parenting
Mindful Parenting
Raising Mindful Kids
Raising Healthy Kids
Pregnancy
Mindful Pregnancy
Sponsored Posts
Super Foods
Go Organic
Mindful Eating
Organic Vegetables
Healthy Recipes
Natural Remedies
Beauty
Fitness
Organizing
Travel
Finace
Interiors
link Party
Happy Sunday
Bloggers Pit Stop
Reviews
Sign Up To Get Your Free Daily Mindfulness Guide Right Into Your Mailbox
Health, Pregnancy
Natural Ways to Overcome Nausea during First Trimester
Nausea is common among the pregnant women during First Trimester; it is caused by high levels of pregnancy hormones flooding your body, as they produce the chorionic gonadotrophin hormone in large quantities which helps to give nourishment to the baby.
So basically greater the feeling of nausea greater you are protecting your child- that is something to console for all that morning sickness you are going to experience for a few early weeks of your pregnancy.
Nausea varies from person to person, some have just in the mornings, for some in the evening and for some all day long, thus it is necessary to know and track the nausea occurrences and the situations , such as the trigger that causes nausea, being in the crowd or car, some sort of a odour, a taste, the reasons are endless.
There are many ways and home remedies to overcome or reduce nausea. Here are few tips listed to help you cope up well with the morning sickness.
Add Lemons During First Trimester
Lemons have a natural calming effect which can reduce nausea. You can use lemons in the form of lemon candies, lemon flavored candles , lemon essential oil and even just smelling raw lemons , is relaxing and refreshing.
Eat At Regular Intervals
It is necessary to eat small portions at regular intervals; making sure that your stomach is not empty. As per a survey, it has been proved that 80 percent of the woman feel more sick and nausea when they are empty stomach, as when the stomach is empty then the stomach acids do not have anything to feed on and makes you feel sick.
Thus it is necessary to snack in between, carrying healthy snack bars or fruits when you are going out is important, especially during the first few weeks of your First Trimester.
Eat Bland and Low Fatty Food
It is necessary to have food immediately as soon as you wake up. It is good to have bland food low in fiber and easily digestive, as fatty food takes longer to digest. Also the fat in the food, being lighter than water will always tend to form the top most layer in your stomach. this will make you feel a sort of regurgitation till it settles down.
Avoid food such as pickles, oily snacks and heavy food like puris. You can add yogurt and fruits to your diet.
Avoid Cooking
It is better to avoid cooking atleast during the first trimester, as nausea is mainly caused by smell which triggers it. If you really feel like cooking then switch on the exhaust and open all the windows so the smell does not stay within the kitchen.
In fact try to cook some bland food that may not make you shoot up.
Keep Yourself Hydrated
It is necessary to keep you hydrated at all time, as it is important for the development of the baby. Nausea or vomiting cause loss of water, thus drinking water is very important, you can take it in the form of juice, soup or tea.
Make sure you take good water, not the RO demineralized water, rather go for some kind of well mineralized water. Drink lots of tender coconut, mosambi juice and lemon juice.
Add Ginger to your Diet
Ginger has many components which aids in soothing the stomach. Try adding a slice of ginger to warm water or tea or ginger ale. You can also snack them in the form of crystallized ginger candy or ginger bread. Ginger helps to fight nausea big time and in the most natural way.
If nausea is severe and you are losing weight as you are unable to have any food, then it is advisable to meet your doctors, as they would help you and prescribe medication to stop nausea. It is better to keep yourself distracted and not to think about nausea, as thinking about it makes you feel sicker.
I am taking my blog to next level with Blogchatter and MyFriendAlexa.
Related Posts:
Mindful Walking – An Easy Way To Get Rid Of…
7 Seemingly Healthy Ideas That Can Prove To Be Dangerous
Privacy Policy
Pregnancy and Mindfulness – Do You Know About…
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Menaka Bharathi is a Mindful Parenting Consultant and an Organic food Producer. She markets Indian Superfoods throug SIM Organics which taken in small quantities would help to maintain the health of the family and boost resistance against diseases.
12/09/2016 by menaka bharathi | 15 Comments
« A Simple Guide to Grow Your Own Organic Veggies In Available Spaces
Cockroach Milk – The New Protein Superfood Ready To Become The Next Big Health Hack »
You may also like
15 Comments on Natural Ways to Overcome Nausea during First Trimester
Jennifer Prince says:
20/06/2018 at 7:50 pm
These are great tips! I had nausea with all 3 of mine, and it can really be a big downer and hard to deal with.
menaka bharathi says:
20/06/2018 at 5:03 pm
Thanks Nayna, giger does help too
menaka bharathi says:
20/06/2018 at 4:51 pm
Lemon is a wonder fruit Ana, we make sure to have it in every form we can in India
Ana De- Jesus says:
19/06/2018 at 3:24 am
I knew that ginger was really good for those who have nausea or are pregnant but I had no idea that lemon was good for you if you are suffering from sickness. What fantastic tips.
Nayna Kanabar says:
17/06/2018 at 12:13 pm
This is a useful post ad each persons pregnancy is different. Some get more nausea than others. I found taking ginger very beneficial.
menaka bharathi says:
30/06/2017 at 1:11 pm
Oh thats wonderful news Jen! Thanks a ton
Jen Gregor says:
30/06/2017 at 10:23 am
Thank you for this post of great ideas! Just wanted to let you know you will be the featured post this week at the Friday at the Fire Station link-up!
menaka bharathi says:
19/09/2016 at 7:09 pm
Amrita, nice to know doc to resorts to natural remedies …
Amrita Basu (Misra) says:
18/09/2016 at 11:08 pm
This is great advice .Ginger ,lemon and not cooking helped me.I had nausea throught my pregnancy.Plus light small meals
menaka bharathi says:
16/09/2016 at 11:31 am
Oh Dixi, sure hydrating helps a lot!
Dixita says:
15/09/2016 at 7:14 pm
Amazing tips .
Will use the lemon and hydrating one tips .
menaka bharathi says:
15/09/2016 at 5:09 pm
Ha lucky you Tina! many do not have such luck..
Tina Basu says:
15/09/2016 at 2:41 pm
The best part of my pregnancy was no morning sickness, no nausea nothing! Good tips there for moms to be. I only wanted to eat through out the 9 months!
menaka bharathi says:
13/09/2016 at 10:37 pm
Saumy, just loving the encouragement I get from the blogchatter community, happy days these are..
Saumy Nagayach says:
12/09/2016 at 7:44 pm
One more post to add in the bookmarks list. Thanks Menaka for sharing such informative and beautiful posts with us! Keep writing! 🙂
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Follow Us
Twitter
Facebook
Google Plus
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
BlogLovin
Pinterest
Email
Twitter
Menaka Bharathi
Menaka Bharathi a.k.a Simple Indian Mom is an Agricultural Microbiologist and Mindfulness Coach specializing in Indian Super Foods and Teaches Mindfulness to Pregnant women, Children and Moms. She Produces Indian Superfoods and markets them in her own brand SIM Organics.
Read More here
Our Products
Recent Posts
Blogger’s Pit Stop #169
Mindful Walking – An Easy Way To Get Rid Of Stress and Frustration
#Pollachi-Sexual-Abuse – Blame Indian Parenting and Patriarchal Society
Featuring Simple Indian Mom Mercy Bella – A Real Woman Of Substance
9 Proven Steps To Maintain A Healthy Heart
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
All Right Reserved By Simple Indian Mom
Instagram Feeds
[instagram-feed]