5 Drinks That Speed Up Your Metabolism And Help Burn Your Belly Fat Instantly
NDTV
BUSINESS
हिन्दी
MOVIES
CRICKET
HEALTH
FOOD
TECH
HOP
AUTO
বাংলা
தமிழர்
APPS
TRAINS
ART
WEDDINGS
HOME NEWS FAQ VIDEOS HOME REMEDIES TOP STORIES RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS HOSPITALS Diseases DIABETES
Languages
हिंदी | Hindi
বাংলা | Bengali
தமிழ் | Tamil
Close [X]
Hey, you are not subscribed. Click here to subscribe Now .
ASK OUR EXPERTS
Choose Topic --Select-- Breast Feeding Tobacco Control Bones & Joints Children Child Development Cancer Diabetes Drugs Ear Emotions Eyes Living Healthy Health Insurance Heart HIV/AIDS Infection Injuries/FirstAid Liver Men's Health Nutrition Pregnancy Rehabilitation Medicine Sexual Health Skin Surgery Teeth Travel and Health Tuberculosis Women's Health
Using 0 of 1024 Possible characters
Home » Living Healthy » 5 Drinks That Speed Up Your Metabolism And Help Burn Your Belly Fat Instantly
5 Drinks That Speed Up Your Metabolism And Help Burn Your Belly Fat Instantly
Get rid of belly fat: Metabolism is the rate at which the body burns calories, and much of it is dependent on factors outside of ones control, like gender, age and the ratio of body muscle to fat, as muscle burns more calories than fat, even when you are resting.
By: DoctorNDTV Updated: Oct 4, 2018 12:00 IST
4-Min Read
'); } } catch (e) { if (num > 0) { $('.total_count').html(final + ' Shares'); } } }, }); return false; }); }); })
Shares
Lemon water may be extremely simple and effective way to get rid of belly fat.
HIGHLIGHTS
Physical exercise plays an important role in metabolism
Vinegar has long been used as a weight loss aid
Organic green tea is one of the healthiest drinks you can consume
Ever wonder why your friend even after consuming the entire pint of ice cream does not gain a pound, while you eat just a bit and it all goes straight to your belly? The answer lies in the metabolism. Metabolism is the rate at which the body burns calories, and much of it is dependent on factors outside of one’s control, like gender, age and the ratio of body muscle to fat, as muscle burns more calories than fat, even when you are resting. Physical exercise also plays an important role in metabolism. On the other hand, weight loss can be a long and a daunting process which requires persistence, obedience and sacrifice. But other than diet and exercise, there are a few tricks that help you get rid of that stubborn belly fat.
Physical exercise also plays an important role in metabolism.
Photo Credit: iStock
RELATED STORIES
Beat Midweek Blues With Cardiolates: Watch Actress Ananya Panday Having Some Fun While Doing This Calorie Burning Routine
Want some fitness motivation? Watch Ananya Panday doing cardiolates, a great calorie and fat burning workout routine.
Effects Of Beetroot Juice On High Blood Pressure And Other Benefits You Can Count On
From reducing high blood pressure to aiding weight loss, the benefits of beetroot juice are many! Read here to know all of them!
Also read: Want To Get Rid Of That Stubborn Belly Fat? Here's How Walking Can Help You Get In Shape Easily
Try these 5 drinks that can help boost metabolism and burn belly fat:
1. Apple cider vinegar:
We do not recommend you do simply drink apple cider vinegar as it can burn your esophagus. Apple cider vinegar offers many health benefits, including weight loss, improved digestion and boosts metabolism. Apple cider vinegar contains an ingredient called acetic acid, which can prevent a person from gaining body fat. You can mix two teaspoons of organic, unfiltered apple cider vinegar with 16 ounces of water, and a little raw honey to sweeten it up. Sipping it throughout the day can help boost metabolism, burn calories and help you lose weight. Vinegar has long been used as a weight loss aid as it also helps to make you feel full, and has been scientifically shown to increase satiety.
Vinegar has long been used as a weight loss aid
Photo Credit: iStock
Also read: 8 Best Herbs That Can Burn Fat And Spike Up Your Metabolism
2. Green tea:
We all are aware of the benefits that green tea offers. It is made from unfermented leaves and contains high concentrations of antioxidants known as polyphenols. Green tea appears to be the secret to the fat-burning and metabolism boosting effects. Drinking around 3-5 cups of green tea per day for maximum benefits. Organic green tea is one of the healthiest drinks you can consume.
We all are aware of the benefits that green tea offers.
Photo Credit: iStock
3. Lemon water:
Lemon water may be extremely simple and an effective way to get rid of belly fat. All you need to do is mix the juice of a lemon into a glass of water. It offers tons of benefits, including the ability to raise the metabolism and burn belly fat. You can whip up some in a large water bottle and sip on it throughout the day for the best results. Not only will you stay hydrated, which keeps the metabolism burning at its maximum but lemons contain flavonoids with potent antioxidant properties that will help protect your cells from damage. Lemon water also aids in digestion, helping the body to absorb the nutrients from other foods and it aids in regulating insulin spikes too.
Lemon water may be extremely simple and effective way to get rid of belly fat.
Photo Credit: iStock
4. Vegetable juice:
Fresh vegetable juices with spinach, broccoli and other green leafy vegetables, are a great way to flush out the harmful toxins out of your system to support weight loss and a faster metabolism. Vegetables that are packed with potassium are especially good for flushing out sodium that keeps the belly bloated. One great trick for weight loss involving vegetable juice is to drink a big glass just before a meal. Similar to drinking water before eating a meal, it is likely to help reduce the amount of calories you consume by making you feel fuller for longer.
One great trick for weight loss involving vegetable juice is to drink a big glass just before a meal.
Photo Credit: iStock
5. Water:
Staying hydrated is extremely important for metabolism. Cold water, in particular, is said to help the body burn more calories, as it requires that energy to heat it up and digest it later on. While it may only be a small amount, every little bit counts. For added benefit, drinking a glass of water before every meal can help you to consume fewer calories as you will feel full.
Staying hydrated is extremely important for metabolism.
Photo Credit: iStock
Also read: 7 Metabolism Boosting Drinks To Tone Your Body
Disclaimer: This content including advice provides generic information only. It is in no way a substitute for qualified medical opinion. Always consult a specialist or your own doctor for more information. NDTV does not claim responsibility for this information.
COMMENT
DoctorNDTV is the one stop site for all your health needs providing the most credible health information, health news and tips with expert advice on healthy living, diet plans, informative videos etc. You can get the most relevant and accurate info you need about health problems like diabetes, cancer, pregnancy, HIV and AIDS, weight loss and many other lifestyle diseases. We have a panel of over 350 experts who help us develop content by giving their valuable inputs and bringing to us the latest in the world of healthcare.
Shares
Was this Article Helpful Yes or No
How Helpful Was It?
It was informative and accurate
It helped me clear my doubts
It helped me understand the topic better
Other
I have a Question?
Message
Done
How Helpful Was It?
It was not clear or explained well
The information is incorrect
It did not add anything to my existing knowledge
Other
I have a Question?
Message
Done
Trending
Don't Miss Out On These 7 Skincare Hacks This Summer
World Liver Day 2019: Take Care Of Your Liver Naturally With These Simple Tips
Acidity and Bloating: Ditch Those Antacids And Try These Simple Home Remedies Now!
Weight Loss: 5 Reasons Why You Must Give Up Fearing Carbs Right Now
................... Advertisement ...................
................... Advertisement ...................
Sponsored
Why Having Medical Insurance Is Necessary
Home Remedies
Powerful Hacks To Heal Most Common Summer Skin Problems
Eggs And Other Foods That Can Help You Get Rid Of Split Ends
Vitiligo: 10 Expert-Recommended Home Remedies To Your Rescue
10 Natural Ways To Help With Sinus Issues That Work Better Than Nasal Sprays
Amazing Home Remedies By Luke Coutinho To Get Rid Of Sciatica Pain
Hormonal Acne: Top Home Remedies And Characteristics To Watch Out For
................... Advertisement ...................
FAQ
What do IgG and IgM indicate?
Why do I get cuts on my frenulum during intercourse?
Cuts on the foreskin of penis
What is the normal range of pus cells in the urine of children?
What does ASO mean and why is it high?
Read More»
ASK OUR EXPERTS
Using 0 of 1024 Possible characters
Choose Topic --Select-- Breast Feeding Tobacco Control Bones & Joints Children Child Development Cancer Diabetes Drugs Ear Emotions Eyes Living Healthy Health Insurance Heart HIV/AIDS Infection Injuries/FirstAid Liver Men's Health Nutrition Pregnancy Rehabilitation Medicine Sexual Health Skin Surgery Teeth Travel and Health Tuberculosis Women's Health
Trending Topics
Anxiety
High Blood Pressure (Hypertension)
Obesity
Erectile Dysfunction
Osteoporosis
Hair Loss
Routine Health Care
LATEST STORIES
More »
Brain Activity Responsible For Making Moral Decisions
This Tiny Cell Is Good News For Cancer Survivors
Every 3rd 40-Plus Indian Suffers From Lack Of Libido'
BMI Plays Significant Role In Progression Of Multiple Sclerosis: Study
Mosquito-Borne Diseases Set To Flourish As Climate Gets Warmer
................... Advertisement ...................
-------------------------------- Advertisement -----------------------------------
Trending Diseases
Dengue
Diabetes
Brain Tumour
Psoriasis
Depression
Acne
Breast Cancer
Schizophrenia
Diarrhea
Aids
Cancer
Migraine
Fever
Allergy
Chikungunya
Heart Attack
Food poisoning
Anaemia
Constipation
Hernia
Gallbladder stones
Arthritis
Cough
Typhoid
Asthma
Dehydration
Pneumonia
NDTV
Profit
Khabar
Movies
Cricket
Doctor
Food
Tech
Auto
Apps
Trains
Art
Weddings
Feedback | About Us | Investors | Careers | Archives | Disclaimer | Advertise | Channels | Ombudsman | Redressals | Service Terms
Copyright NDTV Convergence Limited . All rights reserved.