Supplement, Food, & Herb Dangers - NAMI Kenosha County
NAMIKENOSHA.org - Providing Support, Education, and Advocacy since 1983
NAMI Kenosha County
HOME
JOIN
DONATE
The Board - About Us
Org Chart and Positions
Overview of NAMI Kenosha County
Affiliate Certification, By-Laws & Budget
History
Newsletter
SUPPORT
I NEED HELP
Crisis Guide and Resources >
Crisis Phone Numbers
Chapter 51: Mental Commitments
Chapter 55: Protective Service
Connections Recovery Support Group
Equine Therapy
Suicide Prevention & Grief Support >
Suicide in Youth
Suicide Prevention and Awareness Month
Students
Veterans
Caregivers & Parents
Faith Leaders
Psychiatric Service Dogs
Finding A Therapist
Local Area Services >
KHDS - Information Please!
Counseling Services in Kenosha
Kenosha Community Resource Booklet
Kenosha County Grief Guide
Kenosha Mental Health Guide
YMCA Program
Telepsychiatry
Drug and Alcohol Addiction Local Support >
Rehab Accreditation
Kenosha County Opioid Initiative
Addiction is a Family Disease
NARCAN (Naloxone)
RESOURCE LINKS >
Magazine List
Book List
Movie List
Documentary List
Music List
Bridges
Oxford House
Law Enforcement
Psychiatric Advanced Directive
NAMI AIR app
Holiday Blues
Cooling Centers
EDUCATION
What is Mental Illness? >
Addiction and Dual Diagnosis >
Drug Duration in the Body
ADHD
​Anosognosia
Anxiety Disorder
Bereavement/Grief, Anxiety and Depression
Bipolar Disorder
Borderline Personality Disorder
Children and Adolescents
Depression
Disruptive Mood Dysregulation Disorder
Dissociative Disorder
Eating Disorders
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder
Oppositional Defiant Disorder (ODD) / Conduct Disorder (CD)
PANS & PANDA Disorder
Postpartum Depression
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
Early Psychosis and Psychosis
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophrenia
Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD)
Self Harm
Sleep and Mental Health
Tardive Dyskinesia
Testing for Mental Illness
Mental Illness Dictionary
Medication Quick Reference
Medication Withdrawal
Alternative Treatments
Supplement, Food, & Herb Dangers
In Our Own Voice >
Voices of Recovery
Family To Family
Ending The Silence
Certified Peer Specialist Training
Homefront Classes
CIP/CIT >
CIP/CIT Class Presentations
CIP/CIT Supplemental Class Materials
CIT/CIP Wisconsin Newsletter
SAMHSA's GAIN CENTER
NAMI Now
Webinars
Erica's Lighthouse
America's Mental Health Channel - HEALTHY PLACE
Famous People with Mental Issues
Popular in Social Media
ADVOCACY
Government Shutdown
Workplace Mental Health
STIGMA
Voting Rights
Local Heroes
Policy and Issues
Health Insurance and Medicaid
Medicare
Research
Get Involved
Mental Health System: Kenosha County >
Kenosha County Treatment Court
Kenosha County Behavioral Health Jail Diversion Program
Kenosha County Family Treatment Court
Veteran Treatment Court
Voices in Action
Legislation >
AB693 – Teacher Protection Act
HR 2792
Protect Medicaid
AHCA
H.R. 2646, Families in Mental Health Crisis Act
S2680, the Mental Health Reform Act of 2016
Criminal Justice System
Kenosha In The News
NAMI Smarts
NAMI in the news >
Mass Shootings and Violence
NAMI WI Public Policy, Advocacy, and Support
NAMI Press Release
NAMI 100 Women
Behavioral Healthcare
Treatment Advocacy Center
EVENTS
Annual NAMI Christmas Party
Annual Vigil
Tenuta's Fundraiser
Annual Picnic
Mental Illness Awareness Week
Healing Connections
OVERDOSE AWARENESS DAY
Rally For Recovery
Stop Heroin In Kenosha
Heroin/Opiates in Kenosha
Kenosha Unity Coalition
Wake Up Call / Stairway To Heroin
Peterson's Pumpkin Patch
VET Night of The Arts
Dementia Crisis Meeting
Just Live Fundraiser Concert
NAMI Walk 2017
Mental Health Awareness - MAY
RundRaising
NAMI National Convention
NAMI WI Conference
Supplement, Food, and Herb Dangers
​Some supplements and herbs can interfere or prevent the metabolism of drugs which can lead to overdose or other serious problems (like mania and serotonin syndrome) or the return of illness symptoms with limited ways to get the symptoms quickly under control. Often herbal plants are added to popular drinks and snacks without consumers being fully aware unless they read the fine print.
The combination of drugs and certain herbal plants can be severe and life threatening. The purpose of the information on this page is to provide awareness to help in making informed choices about the use of supplements and herbs in mental illness treatments.
​Grapefruit Interactions With Bipolar Drugs
​A number of psychotropic drugs, including those used treat anxiety, depression, and psychosis, are among the 85 agents grapefruit juice is known to interfere with. This is because grapefruit contains furanocoumarins, an organic compound which blocks an enzyme that normally breaks down certain medications. Medications used to treat everything from high cholesterol and arrhythmia to allergies, HIV and even Viagra are complicated by the otherwise healthy effects of grapefruit. This effectively means that the drug concentration levels in the blood will be higher than expected. In some cases, this will mean that the intended effect and/or side effects will be stronger, even intolerable. At other times, it could be dangerous. Read more here www.verywellmind.com/why-shouldnt-i-drink-grapefruit-juice-with-my-meds-380358.
List of Psychotropic Medications Affected by Grapefruit
All told, there are 15 drugs commonly used to treat symptoms of bipolar disorder that are known to be affected, in differing degrees, by grapefruit:
Anafranil (clomipramine)
BuSpar (buspirone)
Clozapine (clozaril)
Elavil (amitriptyline)
Halcion (triazolam)
Haldol (haloperidol)
Luvox (fluvoxamine)
Prozac (fluoxetine)
Seroquel (quetiapine)
Serzone (nefazodone)
Tegretol (carbamazepine)
Trazodone (desyrel)
Valium (diazepam)
Versed (midazolam)
Zoloft (sertraline)
CBD Oil & Drug Interactions: A Complete Guide
CBD and other compounds in hemp oil may interact with a wide range of drugs. If you are taking or plan on taking any medications and wish to begin using a CBD product of any kind, be sure to talk with your doctor first.
CBD is widely considered safe to use, well-tolerated (even in children and animals), and non-addictive (even anti-addictive). What is not widely discussed is the way that CBD oil is metabolized by the body can have a significant impact on the processing of other drugs.
https://intellicbd.com/articles/cbd-drug-interactions/
Herbs and Supplements to Use Only With Caution for Bipolar Disorder and Other Mental Illnesses
http://www.winchesterhospital.org/health-library/article?id=21404
Chromium Picolinate : Chromium treatment decreases the sensitivity of 5-HT2A receptors. (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11823896.
Ginseng (Panax Ginsing can cause mania. Avoid herbal stimulants (such as ma huang, ginseng, or kola) while taking an antipsychotic medicine.
From https://www.naturalnews.com/DrugWatch_Seroquel.html
The following sedating herbs may interact or increase side effects of Seroquel due to the known interaction between antipsychotics and sedatives: calamus, calendula, chamomile, California poppy, catnip, couch grass, elecampane, ginseng Siberian, goldenseal, gotu kola, hops, Jamaican dogwood, kava, lemon balm, sage, St. John's wort, sassafras, scullcap, shepherd's purse, stinging nettle, valerian, withania root, and yerba mansa.3
American ginseng, Panax ginseng, and Siberian ginseng have antipsychotic properties and thus, may have an additive effect on the pharmacologic activity and adverse reactions of seroquel.4
Glutamine
Inositol (vitamin B8) induced mania - pushing up your dopamine and glutamate activity
S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe)
St. John's Wort
Vanadium
Herbs and Supplements to Use Only With Caution
Antidepressant drugs may cause manic episodes in people with bipolar disorder. For this reason, herbs and supplements with antidepressant properties might also be risky. Case reports suggest that SAMe , 16,17,18St. John's Wort , 7,8 and inositol15 can indeed trigger manic episodes.
The supplement L-glutamine , while not normally considered to have antidepressant properties, has reportedly triggered episodes of mania in two people not previously known to have bipolar disorder. 4
A ginseng product has also been associated with an episode of mania. 6
The supplement chromium is often sold in the form of chromium picolinate. Picolinate can alter levels of neurotransmitters. 5 This has led to concern among some experts that chromium picolinate might be harmful to people with bipolar disorder. 2
It has been suggested that the drug lithium works, in part, by reducing the body's level of vanadium . 1 For this reason, it might be advisable for people with bipolar disorder to avoid using supplements that contain vanadium.
Finally, numerous herbs and supplements may interact adversely with drugs used to prevent or treat bipolar disorder. For example, people who use lithium should avoid herbal diuretics.
This introduction to the clinical science of cannabinoids will focus on helping learners to understand why cannabis effects the brain, the research into cannabinoids as a therapeutic compounds, the risks of unregulated cannabis use (with a focus on bipolar and psychotic disorders), and what we still need to learn about this complicated drug.
​Unwanted effects of psychotropic drug interactions with medicinal products and diet supplements containing plant extracts Feb 6, 2018
http://www.psychiatriapolska.pl/uploads/onlinefirst/ENGverWoron_PsychiatrPolOnlineFirstNr92.pdf
raw.pdf
Summary:
The most common effect of interactions between SSRI or SNRI antidepressants and HP were hemorrhagic complications associated with Japanese ginkgo biloba (27.45% of complications in this subgroup). Another common complication was serotonin syndrome (SS) (11.8%) occurring during the use of ginseng (one case of SS after the addition of bacopa). In the group of antipsychotic drugs, the highest number of interactions was observed in the case of haloperidol, and the highest number of complications (29.8%) was associated with ginseng (including 6 cases of ventricular arrhythmias in combination with haloperidol), milk thistle (including 7 cases of pancreatitis in combination with haloperidol or risperidone, 1 case of hepatotoxicity after adding aripiprazole) and rhodiola rosea. As for hypnotics and sedatives – interactions with ginseng were most frequently reported, mainly intensified sedative effects, cognitive disorders and disturbances in consciousness. In 132 cases, withdrawal of the plant preparation resulted in a decrease in the severity of the reported adverse reactions or a complete resolution of the described symptoms.
Conclusion
Herbal Plants (especially ginseng, rhodiola rosea, ginkgo biloba, milk thistle) are associated with a significant risk of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions with psychotropic drugs.
Supplements that affect the metabolism of drugs metabolized in the liver
The antipsychotic drug quetiapine is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 by the liver. The major metabolic pathways are sulfoxidation to the sulfoxide metabolite and oxidation to the parent acid metabolite; both metabolites are pharmacologically inactive. In vitro studies using human liver microsomes revealed that the cytochrome P450 3A4 isoenzyme is involved in the metabolism of quetiapine to its major, but inactive, sulfoxide metabolite.
Use CAUTION with sedating herbs (e.g., lemon balm, kava kava, california poppy, catnip, St. John’s wort, skullcap, and valerian) which can increase the sedative actions of the drug.
Herbs that also use the 3A4 metabolic pathway may interact with this drug.
http://www.nutritional-solutions.net/images/phocadownload/Rx_DepleteInteractions.pdf
Additional articles
Herbal Medication Interactions​
https://www.pharmaceutical-journal.com/files/rps-pjonline/pdf/pj20100508_cpd.pdf
The Interactions of Herbs and Drugs
www.itmonline.org/arts/herbdrug.htm
Herb Drug Interactions
https://www.thelancet.com/pdfs/journals/lancet/PIIS0140673699064570.pdf
Concurrent use of herbs may mimic, magnify, or oppose the effect of drugs. Plausible cases of herb-drug interactions include: bleeding when warfarin is combined with ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba), garlic (Allium sativum), dong qual (Angelica sinensis), or danshen (Salvia miltiorrhiza); mild serotonin syndrome in patients who mix St John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) with serotonin-reuptake inhibitors; decreased bioavailability of digoxin, theophylline, cyclosporin, and phenprocoumon when these drugs are combined with St John's wort; induction of mania in depressed patients who mix antidepressants and Panax ginseng; exacerbation of extrapyramidal effects with neuroleptic drugs and betel nut (Areca catechu); increased risk of hypertension when tricyclic antidepressants are combined with yohimbine (Pausinystalla yohimbe); potentiation of oral and topical corticosteroids by liquorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra); decreased blood concentrations of prednisolone when taken with the Chinese herbal product xaio chai hu tang (sho-saiko-to); and decreased concentrations of phenytoin when combined with the Ayurvedic syrup shankhapushpi. Anthranoid-containing plants (including senna [Cassia senna] and cascara [Rhamnus purshiana]) and soluble fibres (including guar gum and psyllium) can decrease the absorption of drugs. Many reports of herb-drug interactions are sketchy and lack laboratory analysis of suspect preparations. Health-care practitioners should caution patients against mixing herbs and pharmaceutical drugs.
18 Herbal Supplements with Risky Drug Interactions
Herbal drug interactions that may occur when these supplements are combined with prescription medications.
Herbal interactions with prescription medications can interfere with how the drug may be broken down in the body, enhance side effects of prescription medications, or block the intended therapeutic effect of a drug.
Herb-Drug Interactions
The possibility of drug interactions, direct toxicities, and contamination with active pharmaceutical agents are among the safety concerns about dietary and herbal supplements. Although there is a widespread public perception that herbs and botanical products in dietary supplements are safe, research has demonstrated that these products carry the same dangers as other pharmacologically active compounds. Interactions may occur between prescription drugs, over-the-counter drugs, dietary supplements, and even small molecules in food—making it a daunting challenge to identify all interactions that are of clinical concern.
https://www.stonybrookmedicine.edu/sites/default/files/herbal_medicines_interactions-1.pdf
Stockley’s Herbal Medicines Interactions
A guide to the interactions of herbal medicines, dietary supplements and nutraceuticals with conventional medicines
stockleys_herbal_medicines_interactions-1.pdf
Some Herbal Supplements May Interact Badly with Prescription Meds, Study Finds
Patients taking antidepressants — as well as those taking herbal supplements to manage symptoms of depression — should be aware of potentially dangerous interactions between herbs and drugs, the authors of a new study conclude.
Critical evaluation of causality assessment of herb–drug interactions in patients - Awortwe - 2018 - British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology - Wiley Online Library
​The risk of herb–drug interaction (HDI) is increasingly recognized as a public health problem often accompanied by life-threatening adverse drug events, prolonged hospitalization and loss of life [1]. With a rise in global burden of noncommunicable diseases [2–5], pain syndromes, anxiety, depression and aging [6, 7], co-usage of prescribe d medications and herbal products will persistent y be a potential health problem in both developed and developing nations. For instance, cases of acute rejection episodes have been reported in heart, renal or liver transplant patients stabilized on immunosuppressives including cyclosporine and tacrolimus due to concomitant intake of St John’swort
(SJW) known to induce drug metabolizing enzymes [8, 9]. In two case reports, patients with a history of generalized anxiety disorder and mild traumatic brain injury experienced serotonin syndrome and hypomania after addition of SJW or Ginkgo biloba to either a buspirone or ﬂuoxetine regimen [10, 11]. Patients ’ deliberate refusal to disclose their use of herbal medicines to clinicians have led to under eporting of clinically relevant HDI cases. In addition, underestimation of the consequences of HDI due to lack of a standardized probability scoring system has contributed to wrong classiﬁcation of the causality of adverse drug reactions (ADRs). Different experimental models have been u sed to understand the mechanism of such interactions.
Proudly powered by Weebly