2018 December | Natural Gential Herpes Relief Home Cures
Welcome !
Natural Gential Herpes Relief Home Cures
Learn how to cure gential herpes naturally
Contact
Free eBook
FTC Disclaimer
Natural Gential Herpes Relief Home Cures
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Use
Naturally Cure Herpes
Natural Alternatives For Treating Herpes (without drugs) - Click Here
Download FREE eBook
“Natural Treatments And Cures For Genital Herpes”
CLICK HERE for FREE PDF Download
Search for:
Recent Posts
(Untitled)
Girl with sore foot on gray background
Bach Flower Rescue Remedy Spray
DOCTORS STILL CAN NOT FIND THE EXPLANATION: THIS SIMPLE REMEDY CAN CURE YOUR HEM…
Natural Alternatives For Treating Herpes (without drugs) - Click Here
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
Natural Alternatives For Treating Herpes (without drugs) - Click Here
This blog provides information related to natural remedies for herpes or other ailments. All health-related information provided via our site is intended to educate and inform visitors about illnesses and conditions and ways to maintain optimum health. You expressly acknowledge and agree that access to and use of this Web site and the information on the Web site is at your sole risk. This site does not provide medical or any other health care or fitness advice, diagnosis, or treatment. The site and its services are for informational purposes only and are not a substitute for professional medical or health advice, examination, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health professional before starting any new treatment, making any changes to existing treatment, or altering in any way your current exercise or diet regimen. Do not delay seeking or disregard medical advice based on information on this site While we try to keep the information as accurate as possible, we disclaim any implied warranty or representation about its accuracy or completeness. The reader assumes full responsibility for using the information on this site. This site is neither responsible nor liable for any claim, loss or damage resulting from the use of information on this site. This site is intended for use by adults only. Minors should use this site only with the involvement of a parent or guardian.
Siberian Ginseng For Herpes
Before you continue… Click Here to learn how I solved my Herpes Nightmare
(will open in new window)
The root of the Eleutherococcus senticosus plant, also called Siberian ginseng or Eleuthero, is often used medicinally to combat fatigue, stress and herpes. The plant belongs to the ginseng family, Araliaceae, but is botanically different from true ginseng, Panax ginseng and Panax quinquefolius. It can grow in colder areas than real ginseng and usually costs less.
The Chinese have used Eleutherococcus for 4000 years for longevity, health, to stimulate appetite and to improve memory. Russians discovered it in late 19th century and studied it in the late 1950s as a ginseng substitute. They studied the plant’s adaptogen properties on about 4,300 people. The property “adaptogen” was defined by Lazarev, a Russian scientist, who wished to put a more precise name to the tonic properties of ginseng-like plants. Adaptogen refers to a substance that promotes adaptation to environmental stress of all kinds. It regulates several physiological functions without targeting one organ in particular. Eleutherococcus was introduced as a medicinal plant in Western Europe and North America in 1975.
Today many people use it to increase endurance and resistance to stress. Its effect on fatigue, convalescence and concentration problems were partially proven in a recent double blind study on 20 elderly people . Results indicated that after four weeks of 300 mg of Eleutherococcus per day, it had a positive impact on stress, fatigue and vitality, but results were not sustained after eight weeks.
Preliminary studies also suggest that Eleutherococcus promotes immune functions. It was found to have a pronounced effect on T lymphocytes, cytotoxic and natural killer cells. A German double blind study was conducted monitoring immune functions in 18 individuals taking 1 tablespoon of Eleutherococcus senticosus extract three times daily compared to those of the 18 people taking a placebo for four weeks. After four weeks, they measured immune cell concentration in blood samples. The group taking Eleutherococcus had a higher concentration of all immune cells. Total T-cell numbers increased by 78 percent, T helper/inducer cells by 80 percent, cytotoxic Ts by 67 percent, and NK cells by 30 percent. B Lymphocytes also expanded by 22 percent compared to controls. No side effects were noted, even five months after administration. Researchers concluded that, “Eleutherococcus senticosus exerts a strong immunomodulatory effect in healthy normal subjects.”
A double blind study on 93 people suffering from recurrent herpes infections indicates that 2g of Eleutherococcus per day may limit or reduce the frequency of herpes infections. However, these findings concern only herpes virus simplex 2, usually causing genital herpes. A 2001 German in vitro study showed that Eleutherococcus had no impact on herpes virus simplex one (HSV-1) cells. HSV-1 usually causes oral herpes.
From personal experience, I can say that Eleutherococcus is a real adaptogen plant. I’ve used it successfully to cope with stress, build resistance and limit the frequency of genital herpes outbreaks. It helps me to stay focused without straining and provides a sense of overall serenity.
Eleutherococcus must be taken for several days to show effects. Nathuropaths usually say 21 days, but I usually feel an improvement after 10 days.
Eleutherococcus is contraindicated for children under 12, pregnant and breastfeeding women and people suffering from hypertension. It may cause palpitations and increase blood sugar after a meal. It has virtually no side effects, except for mild diarrhea and temporary sleep perturbations.
Eleutherococcus can be taken as an herbal tea, dried root extract, tincture, or water extract. I usually take the tincture because it is more convenient, easier to find and usually contains stronger concentrations of active ingredients. Dosage can vary from 10 ml to 20 ml per day in a glass of water. It is also recommended to stop taking Eleutherococcus for one week every six weeks.
Click Here For The Good News About Your Herpes
(will open in new window)
tom44
30 December, 2018
Cure Herpes
Comments Off on Siberian Ginseng For Herpes
The Many Faces Of Herpes
Before you continue… Click Here to learn how I solved my Herpes Nightmare
(will open in new window)
Genital herpes is not the only kind of herpes that exist today. There are other forms like cold sores and these can be painful and embarrassing as well not to mention the fact that they are a harder form of herpes to hide. Did you know that there are over 80 different forms of the herpes virus? It is a good thing that only 8 of them affect humans. The most common forms of herpes can affect both the mouth and genital areas, they do not stick to one localized area.
Genital herpes is the most well known form of herpes and it affects millions of Americans today and each and every year at least 1 million more herpes cases are reported. You can get this type of herpes through any sort of skin to skin touching and it is something that both men and women can get. The symptoms of genital herpes are rashes, bumps or even blisters. When you are having a genital herpes outbreak you are much more contagious than when you are not although herpes can still be spread when there are no symptoms felt or seen.
You can also catch herpes through oral to genital contact, not just genital to genital. Herpes is a virus and just like a cold it can be easily spread from one person to another. Some of those who get herpes cold sores only get these painful blisters once while others get them throughout their entire lives. If you have ever had a cold sore then you have herpes and you always will, there is nothing that can be done to get rid of this herpes virus.
You can get herpes through any sort of contact and sexual contact is the most common way to transfer this virus. Any kind of sexual contact including genital, oral and even anal sexual contact will put you at risk.
Click Here For The Good News About Your Herpes
(will open in new window)
tom44
24 December, 2018
Genital Herpes
Comments Off on The Many Faces Of Herpes
STD Info To Know
Before you continue… Click Here to learn how I solved my Herpes Nightmare
(will open in new window)
STD’S are a problem that many of today’s youth are faced with. They are a real threat to our society. STD’s consist of any disease that is acquired primarily through sexual contact. They are infectious diseases that spread from person-to-person through contact with infected bodily fluids. In this, you will be exposed to two of the more common threats in the world of STD’s. (However, there are several more.)
Clamidia is one of the most common sexually transmitted diseases (STD’S) of our time caused by a bacterium know as Chlamydia trachomatis, which if left untreated for long can damage the reproductive organs. Symptoms may often times go unnoticed because they are usually mild or none at all. Un-reparable damages can be caused silently before the condition is even noticed, such as infertility. It’s very important to get a yearly physical and get tested to ensure your health. Most of the time there are never any symptoms at all in men.
Here is an interesting and very frightening statistic for everyone: between the years of 1987 and 2004 reported cases of clamidia jumped from 50.8 to 319.6 cases per 100,000 population!
Some methods fore treatment for clamidia include:
•	Azithromycin
•	Doxycycline
•	Erythromycin ethylsuccinate
•	Ofloxacin
*Chlamydia is one of the most easily treated STD’S. These medications, when taken correctly will eliminate the disease 99.9% of the time. (These medications must be prescribed by your practicing physician.) See a doctor if you have questions.
A current threat to the youth of today is another STD by the name of hepatitis. Hepatitis is a rather more serious one however. Hepititus is inflammation of the liver that is caused by a virus. The result in contracting this one can almost certainly lead to death in many cases! There are five different types of viral hepatitis. They include but are not limited to: hepatitus A, B, & C. Also know as HAV, HAB, & HAC. These are merely the most common forms of the disease. However, the only one of these that is an STD is hepititus B. All others have alternate forms of infecting.
HBV
HBV can survive outside the body at least 7 days and still be capable of transmitting infection.
The symptoms for all three types of viral hepatitis are much the same. Symptoms are much more predominant in adults than in infected children. If symptoms do occur, they usually include:
•	Yellowing of the skin and eyes (jaundice)
•	Tiredness
•	nausea
•	dark urine
•	clay-colored bowel movements
•	loss of appetite
•	abdominal discomfort
Some of the treatment medication that can be used to treat this disease include:
•	Acyclovir (Zovirax)
•	Famciclovir (Famvir)
•	Valacyclovir (Valtrex)
*These statements are merely facts that have been gathered. They are in no way a substitute to seeing a physician. If you have any doubts, see a doctor immediately. If you have been promiscuous in the past and have not been tested within the last 6 months, it is strongly suggested to do so.
Jenny Smith
Click Here For The Good News About Your Herpes
(will open in new window)
tom44
18 December, 2018
Std
Comments Off on STD Info To Know
Treatment Of Genital Herpes 101
Before you continue… Click Here to learn how I solved my Herpes Nightmare
(will open in new window)
Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease caused by the herpes simplex viruses (HSV) type 1 and type 2. Most genital herpes is caused by HSV type 2. Most people have no or minimal symptoms from HSV-1 or HSV-2 infection.
When symptoms do occur, they usually appear as one or more blisters on or around the genitals or rectum. The blisters break, leaving ulcers or tender sores that may take up to four weeks to heal. Typically, another outbreak can appear weeks or months later.
Although the infection can stay in the boby forever, the number of outbreaks usually decreases over a period of years. You can pass genital herpes to someone else even when you experience no symptoms.
The symptoms of genital herpes vary from person to person. Some people have severe symptoms,such as many painful sores, while others have mild symptoms. An initial outbreak of genital herpes usually brings about symptoms within two weeks of having sexual contact with an infected person and can last from two to three weeks.
The early symptoms can include: an itching or burning feeling in the genital or anal area; flu-like symptoms, including fever; swollen glands; pain in the legs, buttocks, or genital area; vaginal discharge; a feeling of pressure in the area below the stomach.
There is no treatment that can cure genital herpes; the virus will always be in your body. Certain drugs such as acyclovir, valacyclovir, and famciclovir can shorten outbreaks and make them less severe, or stop them from happening. Depending on your needs, your doctor can give you drugs to take right after getting outbreak symptoms or drugs that you can take on a regular basis to try to stop outbreaks from happening.
When used along with safe sex practices, Valacyclovir can also help prevent you from passing the infection to someone lse.Talk to your doctor about which treatament plan is best for you.
During outbreaks, these steps can speed healing and prevent spreading of the infection to other sites of the body or to other people. Keep the infected area clean and dry.Try not to touch the sores. Wash hands after contact. Avoid sexual contact from the time the symptoms are first noticed until the sores have healed.
Immune boosting Beta-mannan is very helpful in suppressing and reducing severity of outbreaks, but surgical treatments such as cryosurgery will not help. Treatments for this condition include free-form lysine or supplemental high-lysine low-arginine diet is beneficial. Natural therapies are: red marine alga (a antiviral blocker); blue-green alga Spirulina platensis specially processed (antiviral agent); Micronutrient (episode suppressor); Colostrum Immunoglobulins (anti-microbial for infants); Beta-mannan (promotes healing); Olive leaf (oleuropein-antioxidant boosts immune responders) and Vitamin C (antiviral nutrient).
There is no cure for genital herpes. Once you have the virus, it stays in your body and there is a chance that you will have outbreaks. Medicine can shorten and stop outbreaks from happening.
There are things you can do to protect yourself from getting genital herpes. The best way to prevent any STD is to practice abstinence, or not having vaginal, oral or anal sex. Have a sexual relationship with one partner who has been tested for herpes and is not infected is another way to reduce your chances of getting infected.
Protect yourself with a latex condom every time you have vagina, anal or oral sex. Condoms should be used for any type of sex with every partner. For vaginal sex use a latex male condom or a female polyurethane condom.
Click Here For The Good News About Your Herpes
(will open in new window)
tom44
17 December, 2018
Treatment For Herpes
Comments Off on Treatment Of Genital Herpes 101
Ethics Of A Life-Long Herpes Infection 101
Before you continue… Click Here to learn how I solved my Herpes Nightmare
(will open in new window)
From day one my own personal life-long herpes infection has presented me with several ethical challenges. It has challenged me on the question of who to tell and when. It has challenged me on the issue of what to say and how to others with herpes. It has challenged me on the question of “Do I have any responsibilities towards trying to prevent the people in the community who do not herpes from getting it, and if so what are they”?
On how to tell and when:
When I was diagnosed with herpes the doctors told me that it was safe to have sex with others as long as I avoided having sex during outbreaks and that I would get warning signs of when an outbreak would be coming. Luckily, we are working with much better information these days. A person with herpes is potentially contagious every-single day of the year and safer sex including using a combination of a condom or dental dam and an anti-viral gel is the best way of ensuring that one
isn’t inadvertently spreading the virus.
I was an irresponsible coward when I first got herpes. Because thedoctors told me that I wasn’t contagious without outbreaks and because I was in the habit of using condoms, I decided that I only had to tell someone that I had herpes if and when it seemed like the relationship was turning serious and there would be regular sexual contact. I had justified my cowardice by thinking that the risk to others was too small to stick my neck out and get the rejection due to a herpes leper. Please don’t be like me. Not telling someone before you have sex that you have herpes is absolutely the wrong thing to do. There’s no real way to justify it. I now tell potential lovers I have herpes even before the first date. It gets the weight of this guilt most herpes people have off my chest and to me it feels like the right thing to do.
Many people tell me that it’s okay if you’re not going to have sex with someone to wait and see if the relationship becomes serious before telling them about herpes. Sure this is much better than waiting until after sex, but to me it still isn’t good enough. If you care about someone, if you respect them , why not tell them as early as possible so they can decide if they want to invest the energy and time in getting to know you better? Isn’t it a bit manipulative to allow someone to develop feelings for you without warning them that they risk a life-long viral infection if they get involved with you? Think about it. If you wait until they are already emotionally attached to you, they may feel compelled to continue with the relationship when they may not have if you had told them up-front. It takes more courage and integrity to tell early but it feels better to have the weight off your chest and the person you tell will usually respect you for giving them the choice.
I am especially appealing to men since I believe that men are not as protective of their sex partners when it comes to telling about herpes as women are. Guys, please don’t have sex with anyone without telling them about your herpes. And if they don’t know the facts don’t understate the risks- herpes is a more physically and emotionally devastating disease for women than it is for men and it is much easier for a man to give a woman herpes than it is for a woman to give it to a man.
On how and what to say to others with herpes:
I am a holistic healer- a herbalist and homeopath. My family have been healers for many generations in my native country of Trinidad and Tobago and as far back as Africa. I had little to no interest in treating herpes as a healer until I got herpes myself. Wanting to change a negative to a positive, I decided to make the holistic treatment of herpes the cornerstone of my practice. The bible says “the stone that the builder refused, I will make my cornerstone. Bob Marley and the wailers sing about it too.
It didn’t take me long once I decided to become a holistic viral specialist to realize that I was confronted with a daunting challenge. Most professionals including all the herbalists and homeopaths I know rely heavily on referrals to build their client-base. Here I was now working with a client-base that I was never going to get a lot of referrals from. My patients with herpes don’t go around telling the world that I helped them with their outbreaks. Some of my patients have yet to tell their significant others that they have herpes, many have not told their closest friends and their family. I am not a company. I don’t have an advertising budget. The only way for me to reach out to others with herpes and encourage them to come for me for treatment was to speak out in public about my herpes work and about herpes in general. This forced me to be far more out of the closet than would have been my personal choice.
I seem to always create challenging situations for myself. Speaking to others with herpes is not a task for the faint of heart. Some people like to shoot the messenger- I have the bullet-wounds to prove it. But I can say that speaking to others with herpes has been and continues to be one of the most gratifying experiences in my life. I feel a deep bond with many of the people with herpes who interact with me. I felt this kind of bond when I played team sports. I’ve felt this kind of bond all my life with other black people. There’s something about “us against the world” that can make people tight with other. I love my herpes friends. I love my herpes patients- even the ones who misbehave. I am not grateful for getting herpes, but I don’t regret it either. Nevertheless, the truth hurts, and I have some bitter truth to tell others with herpes:
Having a lover who also has herpes isn’t a free ticket for unprotected sex. Even if you both have the same strain Even if one gave it to the other. Having unprotected sex with each other can and often will make one or both partner’s cases of herpes worse. It’s called re-inoculation and it’s a message many with herpes don’t want to hear.
If you have herpes or cold sores you are potentially contagious everyday and there is no sure way to tell if you are shedding virus. So do consider using a condom/dental dam combined with an anti-viral gel when having sex and do be careful about sharing wet towels or wash cloths with others.
No two people get herpes the same way so you are going to have your own individual experience with the virus and will have to find your own way of dealing with it on all the different levels you will have to deal with it.
A cure for herpes in our lifetime is unlikely and there are no quick-fix solutions for managing herpes. Herpes cannot be managed with a topical agent alone- whether it be creams, lotions, or essential oils. Managing herpes takes changing your diet, managing stress and other triggers, and may also require either taking herbal medicine or drug therapy.
You may not get fewer outbreaks as you get older. While this is often the case, since no two people get herpes the same way, other diseases, menopause, self-abuse, re-inoculation by unprotected sex and other factors can change the pattern of frequency and severity of outbreaks at any point during your life-long journey with herpes.
Cold-sores are just as contagious if not more contagious than genital herpes and you can infect others when there are no signs of sores present.
Having herpes does make you more vulnerable to other sexually transmitted infections including HIV, cervical dysplasia and genital warts.
Daily use of l-lysine is an ineffective strategy for treating herpes and can do more harm than good. There are more effective natural remedies such as garlic for treating herpes without side-effects.
On talking to those who don’t have herpes:
The reality check for me is that the mainstream and alternative media do not want talk about herpes. They would prefer to keep us in a ghetto. There is a lot of misinformation floating around and people without herpes have few places to turn to hear the facts about herpes. They don’t hear the facts in their churches, young people are not being educated enough about herpes in school. Most parents aren’t teaching their children about herpes, older siblings are not passing information down to the younger ones.
It’s really up to us who have herpes to try harder to dialogue with those who don’t. HIV won’t be the last word in human population control from the world of viruses. If we don’t learn how to better protect the population from getting herpes and other sexually transmitted infections we are going to be in a lot of trouble. Herpes is a gateway disease it provided easy access through your mucus membranes for any sexually transmitted virus.
It is my unshakeable conviction that those of us in the herpes community need to be more vocal in the media and to also reach out to those around us. Each one teach one. Each one reach one.
Christopher Scipio
Holistic Herpes Treatment Specialist
Click Here For The Good News About Your Herpes
(will open in new window)
tom44
11 December, 2018
Genital Herpes
Comments Off on Ethics Of A Life-Long Herpes Infection 101
Essential Oils And The Herpes Virus
Before you continue… Click Here to learn how I solved my Herpes Nightmare
(will open in new window)
Aromatherapy Oils and the Herpes Virus – One Person’s Success Story
The Herpes Simplex virus (or HSV) is a difficult disease. It is widely known as incurable, with painful skin lesions on sensitive areas of the body. The lesions reccur more often for some people than others – their ‘outbreaks’ tend to be related to periods of high-stress. Modern medicine does not offer a cure, though there are pharmaceutical preparations available to limit the frequency and duration of HSV outbreaks. With a reputation as ‘incurable’, ‘painful’, ‘not-so-pretty’, and varieties described as ‘oral and labial’ or ‘genital’, the disease can be a little challenging and embarrasing to say the least.
Well, I’ve been through this. I’ve had the painful lesions, had to deal with the regular outbreaks of painful cold-sores in my mouth and on my lips (I was blessed with the ‘oral’ variety). I’ve been through those great internal debates on how to break the news to a partner (thankfully always returning that look that says something like ‘Oh! I thought you were going to tell me my cat just died…that’s no big deal’). Though it still seemed like a big deal. Regularly having those few days of feeling like a flu was coming on, followed by a few days of outbreak – at what always seemed like the worst of times. On top of it, being an athlete, training really hard tended to cause outbreaks as well – weightlifting in particular. Maybe it was just really strenuous, or maybe I wasn’t actually a ‘weightlifter’ – but that heavy lifting would almost always lead, once again, to an outbreak.
I freqently wondered in the midst of these bouts with HSV if this was something I’d have to deal with for the rest of my life – I tried doctor prescribed medicines, Lysine and other remedies, but none kept the virus at bay enough to really make a difference.
Then someone introduced me to essential oils, and I learned a little about their studied antiviral activity. I stumbled onto research performed with a certain oil known as Melissa. Melissa essential oil is distilled from Melissa herb, a plant with a long history in natural medicine. The plant yields a relatively small amount of oil compared to other aromatic varieties, so it’s cost seems a little high. But formal investigation has been being going on in Europe for many years applying the oil to herpes lesions, with very promising results. One company has even extracted a component of the oil and sold it in a prescription form (though I have not read of any evidence showing the extract works better than the oil itself).
The most encouraging statement regarding the use of Melissa on herpes was made by Dr. Dietrich Wabner, a professor at the University of Munich: he stated that a single application of Melissa may lead to a complete remission of the disease. A possible cure! I’d figured I had nothing to lose, so I tried a little bottle of the oil.
Searching further, I found a regimine for the oils’ use. Melissa might not lead to a complete remission in just one application – other healers were finding success when the oil was applied to the affected area when an outbreak felt ‘imminent’. The oil was applied perhaps three times per day during the outbreak; this was repeated the next several times the user thought an outbreak may be coming on, and through the duration of the skin healing. My outbreaks were usually on my tongue at that point (though they started on the palate of my mouth). I would get a very fatigued feeling for a few days, then my tongue would get what seemed like individual taste buds that would feel as though they were burnt (and yes, I have had medical confirmation as to their cause). I also had lesions on my lip, but not as often. So I began the Melissa oil program – just one drop in my mouth a few times a day – and thankfully I actually liked the taste!
Well, perhaps the single dose worked for some folks, but I wasn’t quite so fortunate – though I was certainly not discouraged. The history of Melissa and it’s healing powers was renoun, and I kept up with the program. Despite continuing to have outbreaks, they were shorter, and they seemed to occur less frequently. And after a while, it dawned on me – the outbreaks had stopped completely! And believe me, my life has been no less stressful – more so if anything. Also, while outbreaks do tend to happen less freqently for some over time, I had been living with this for 15 years and they were still fairly regular. But no matter how stressful my days were, how heavy my weight training sessions or other athletic endeavors, the outbreaks have not returned!
For individuals who may have more sensitive skin than I, or have outbreaks in more sensitive places, Melissa essential oil can be diluted in a vegetable or nut oil (Hazelnut oil or Rosehipseed are commonly used) to 1/10th or even less of the total volume and be just as effective (some say that even 1% will work). It is important to note – and repeated many times in the literature – that taking any essential oil orally, or appliying undiluted to the skin, should be done with extreme caution – whatch your own reaction closely and proceed accordingly. I do not have experience with application to the genital variety of Herpes simplex, but the texts do not make a distinction – this may be where a carrier oil could come in handy. But whatever way it’s used, the system should be followed closely: apply Melissa 2-3 times a day to the affected area when an outbreak is on the way, and use it until the sores have healed completely. Follow this method for the next several outbreaks; there are no guarantees, but this may work for you or someone you may know – and what a wonderful thing it can be!
For sufferer’s of Shingles, another Herpes virus variety causing lesions of the skin, Ravensara (Ravensara aromatica, or ‘True’ Ravensara) oil has been used. Individuals have found relief using Ravensara in a 50-50 blend with Tamanu Nut oil. The Tamanu Nut sooths the skin during the healing process and keeps the Ravensara in contact with the sores. I have not heard of this offering a complete cure, but I have heard of this blend really helping relieve discomfort of this condition.
So if you choose to use aromatherapy oils like Melissa or Ravensara yourself (or to a recommendation), find a trusted source for the essential oils. Find ‘true’ varieties of each – Melissa is often adulterated, and the real thing is generally priced between $10 and $20 per milliliter (about 25 drops, which actually goes a long way); Ravensara should be of the ‘Ravensara aromatica’ variety. Be conservative with direct application – remember that diluting the oil has not been reported to reduce efficacy. Yes, I liked the Melissa oil straight, and never had a problem – but others I’ve known have had sensitive reactions – though this may have been related to UV exposure. Be good to yourself and listen to your body – may you achieve healing success!
Click Here For The Good News About Your Herpes
(will open in new window)
tom44
10 December, 2018
Treatment For Herpes
Comments Off on Essential Oils And The Herpes Virus
Why Everyone Needs A Blood Test For Herpes
Before you continue… Click Here to learn how I solved my Herpes Nightmare
(will open in new window)
I have herpes, don’t you?
You don’t?
Are you sure?
I wouldn’t be so sure if I were you.
Unless you have had a recent type-specific blood test to test for the presence of herpes simplex antibodies you cannot say with any certainty that you don’t have herpes.
You think that only 20% of the population has herpes?
Think again.
You may have heard that one out of every five people has herpes, but that number is untrue and a distortion of the facts. The truth is that at least 60% of the adult population has herpes.
Some people for reasons known only to them decided to exclude people who get herpes above the waist- people who get so-called “cold sores” on their mouths and faces, from the herpes statistics commonly reported in the media, then reporting only the percentage of people who get herpes below the waist- so-called genital herpes. This makes no sense at all since the scientific literature doesn’t classify herpes simplex 1 (cold sores) as a different disease as herpes simplex 2 (genital herpes)- but rather as two different types of the same disease which are almost identical genetically, and since many of the new cases of herpes of the genital area are actually caused by people getting herpes simplex 1 on their genitals from oral sex. There really is no such thing as “ cold sores” –it is simplex herpes simplex 1 of the mouth or face. And those who have it need not be in denial pretending that it’s anything other than herpes simplex. The truth is that you can get herpes simplex 1 on almost any part of your body including your nose, your elbows, your fingers, your stomach, your genitals, your anus, etc. The truth is that herpes simplex is herpes simplex and it is only misleading to not include the people with herpes simplex 1 in herpes statistics.
Somewhere between 20 and 25% of the population get their herpes sores below the waist and somewhere between 50 and 80% of the population gets their herpes sores above the waist. If you factor in the number of people who have both herpes 1 and 2 at the same time, you are left understanding that at least 60% of the population has herpes simplex. Which rings true when you consider that 70% of the adult population has HPV (genital warts or cervical dysplasia) and that 80% of the adult population has had chlamydia at least once.
This is the reality of our times. There is almost no adult who has had more than six sex partners who hasn’t caught a sexually transmitted infection. Including yourself. Including myself.
You say you’ve been tested before for sexually transmitted diseases and are clean?
I wouldn’t be so sure. Herpes and HPV are almost never included in routine testing for sexually transmitted infections. Some doctors have the attitude of “Almost everyone tests positive for herpes so why bother testing”. Unless you have specifically asked for a type-specific blood test for herpes such as the Western Blot test you have probably never had an accurate herpes test. Swabbing for the presence of herpes can and often does render false negative tests. I know that from personal experience. The doctors told me twice that I didn’t have herpes before accurately testing me positive for herpes although I had already had a very obvious primary outbreak.
I strongly encourage you to get a type-specific blood test for herpes if you believe that you don’t have herpes or are unsure of your herpes status. If you test negative for herpes it will allow you to make some decisions regarding safer sexuality to help keep you herpes free for the rest of your sexual history. If you test positive for herpes it will allow you to decide to treat your herpes and make safer sex choices to help you to not infect others and make this epidemic worse. Not only is it the ethical thing to do it is also the sane thing to do since herpes makes you more vulnerable to HIV and HPV and may have some possible links to certain types of cancer and alzheimers. If you don’t know you won’t get treatment. Knowledge is empowering. Denial is irresponsible.
You say you are sure you don’t have herpes because you haven’t had an outbreak?
Most people with herpes, maybe up to 70% don’t get noticeable outbreaks. You may be having sub-clinical (subtle) outbreaks or may be shedding virus asymptomatically (without symptoms). You could be infecting others with herpes without knowing it.
Don’t be afraid of getting a herpes test. Herpes can be effectively treated by a combination of diet, stress reduction and herbal medicine or by drug therapy. There is no cure but it possible to go years between outbreaks.
I still believe that most people when given a choice prefer to the do the right thing. Getting tested for herpes is the right thing.
A great resource for learning about herpes is the international herpes resource center http://www.herpesresourcecenter.com
Christopher Scipio
Click Here For The Good News About Your Herpes
(will open in new window)
tom44
5 December, 2018
Herpes Blood Test
Comments Off on Why Everyone Needs A Blood Test For Herpes
STDs Info 101 Sexual Health Information
Before you continue… Click Here to learn how I solved my Herpes Nightmare
(will open in new window)
As effective as modern contraception methods are, most protect you from only one kind of risk: unintended pregnancies.
But, unplanned parenthood is not the only risk that comes with unsafe and unprotected sex. Practicing unsafe sex also puts you at risk of contacting sexually transmitted diseases and infections. Since condoms are the only known and proven birth control method that protect against STDs and STIs, a lot of sexual health information can go a long way in keeping yourself safe and uninfected.
What are Sexually Transmitted Diseases ?
These are diseases and infections that can be contacted by means of having unsafe and unprotected sex with an infected partner. Contrary to popular belief, STDs are not only transmitted via vaginal sex. Anal, oral, and vaginal sex are potent means of transmitting these viruses and bacteria. Virus and bacteria that trigger these diseases and symptoms are transmitted through the bodily fluids exchanged during intercourse like saliva, vaginal fluids, and semen, among others. Sharing non-sterilized needles with other people is also a common cause of the spread of STDs. Blood is also a potent transmitter of these bacteria and viruses especially if it finds its way into open lesions or sores.
What are the kinds of STDs?
Generally, there are two kinds of STDs – curable and non-treatable. Curable STDs, which are bacterial infections in nature, are often treated by using antibiotics and medication. Treatments are often long procedures which can take months or even years. It has also been observed that getting infected with STDs lowers one’s defenses against future infections. Common examples of curable STDs include gonorrhea, chlamydia, syphillis, trichomoniasis, and vaginal infections.
Non-treatable STDs are viral infections and diseases that progress over time and develop complications. While most are lifelong conditions, some can be fatal and cause death. Treatments and therapies are often administered not for the purpose of treating the infections but for minimizing the symptoms and fortifying the body’s resistance against complications. Some of the known non-treatable STDs include genital herpes, Hepatitis B, genital warts, and the Human Immunodeficiency Virus or HIV.
What are the symptoms of STDs?
Symptoms of STDs may vary among individuals and the gravity of the infection. However, some of the common symptoms include:
* foul penile discharge
* burning pain while peeing
* foul smell and changes in vaginal discharge
* pain during sex and around the lower abdomen
* blisters, sores, lesions, and rashes in the mouth, anus, or genital areas
If one observes any, a combination, or all of the following symptoms, medical attention should be immediately sought.
Key STD Facts
As a controversial subjects, there are lots of misconceptions and wrong ideas about STDs that can potentially cause more trouble. Below are some facts on STDs that can make detection and treatment easier:
* A person can contact more than one STD at a time. An STD does not make a person immune from other sexually transmitted infections or from the same infection. In some cases, having STD can make a person more prone to contacting more infections or having a relapse.
* STD does not discriminate. Sexually transmitted diseases can infect anyone from an adolescent to an aging drug dependent; all it takes is one unprotected indiscretion.
* STDs are common. There are millions of people who are infected with STD or carry an infection strain. Most of these people are not even over the age of 30.
Click Here For The Good News About Your Herpes
(will open in new window)
tom44
4 December, 2018
Std
Comments Off on STDs Info 101 Sexual Health Information
Tags: sexual health info, std 101, std info
Sexual Health Awareness and You
Before you continue… Click Here to learn how I solved my Herpes Nightmare
(will open in new window)
Modern society has adapted a very permissive view of sex that today’s youth are more independent, expressive and liberated when it comes to sexual expression.
In this high-tech culture where conventions do not necessarily become the rule, it is important to consider what lies ahead for you and for your loved ones, and how you can protect each other from getting sexually transmitted diseases.
Sexual health is not just the absence of the disease or its dysfunction and infirmities. It is a state of physical, emotional, psychological and social well-being with regards to one’s sexuality. Addressing sexual health issues involves a complex web of factors such as attitude, behavior, genes, environment, and economy. It also deals with sexual health problems such as STD, HIV, pregnancy, abortion, infertility, cancer, and a wide range of sexual dysfunctions. Those who are in a relationship must not consider an infected partner as being unfaithful. One must learn to practice a positive and respectful approach to sexuality and sexual relationships and this can be achieved if the sexual rights of every individual is respected and protected.
As the cliché goes, “looks can be deceiving.” It’s not easy to tell if the person beside you has STD, or other illnesses for that matter, just by the way that person looks and acts. There are STDs that are not accompanied by any obvious signs. Symptoms can be very subtle that the person infected may not even know it. Aside from your regular health check-up, it is very important that you should also take special attention in knowing your own body especially when you are healthy. So that if any changes take place such as skin infections or sores, as well as any unusual discharge or pain while urinating, it will be easier for you to recognize these signs and symptoms because you already know how your body is like when healthy.
Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) are diseases caused by viruses, bacteria and parasites and can easily be transmitted through body contact during sex. There are at least 25 different sexually transmitted diseases which can be spread by sexual contact, including vaginal, anal, and oral sex.
Sometimes, STDs take a long time to display any kind of symptoms. The following are some of the most common STDs that affect sexually active individuals: Chlamydia, Gonorrhea, Bacterial Vaginosis, Crabs or Pubic Lice, Epididymitis, Genital Herpes, Genital Warts, Gut Infections, Hepatitis, Molluscum, Non-Specific Urethritis, Scabies, Syphilis, Thrush, Trichomonas Vaginosis, Balanitis.
Sexual health awareness is very important in detecting and treating STD to avoid serious infections which can lead to long-term or permanent damage. Untreated STD may cause infertility and can be passed on from a pregnant mother to her unborn child. STD can be passed onto sexual partners easily and can aid in the transmission of HIV.
Abstinence is the surest thing to avoid STD. But you don’t have to be a killjoy just to be free of the dreaded STD. The practice of safe sex and sexual health awareness can greatly help in minimizing risk from STD. Always use condoms during sexual intercourse or dental dams for oral sex. Make sure to sanitize sex toys before and after use. Observe genital hygiene routines, as well as keep your hands clean at all times. Consult with your professional health care provider for sexual health advice on getting tested for STD.
Click Here For The Good News About Your Herpes
(will open in new window)
Related Posts
Liberal Sexual Behavior Has Consequences
tom44
4 December, 2018
Health Tips
Comments Off on Sexual Health Awareness and You
Tags: sex education, sexual health
Contact
Free eBook
FTC Disclaimer
Natural Gential Herpes Relief Home Cures
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Use
designed by createwebsites.pl
Copyrights © 2011
Social Widgets powered by AB-WebLog.com.
SEO Powered by Platinum SEO from Techblissonline
Full Disclosure: All product listings are provided by third party affiliate partners; we only have limited control over them.
1 or more persons associated with this site will receive financial compensation if you purchase anything from the affiliate partners featured on this site.
By using this site you agree to shop at your own risk.
1 or more persons associated with this website are participants in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for blogs and websites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com — Compensation Disclaimer : Some of the links on this site will earn a commission when a person makes a purchase through our links. Every effort has been made to remain fair, accurate, and unbiased.