HEALTH TIPS: Ginger
HEALTH TIPS
Free Informations about our health related issues Diet,Exercise,Sleep, Men's health,Women's health,Youth health, Population health, Public health, Disease burden,Health care,Health system,Medicine Human enhancement and One Health Healing
Ginger
Young ginger rhizomes are juicy and fleshy with a very mild taste. They are often pickled in vinegar or sherry as a snack or just cooked as an ingredient in many dishes. They can also be stewed in boiling water to make ginger tea, to which honey is often added; sliced orange or lemon fruit may also be added. Ginger can also be made into candy.
Mature ginger roots are fibrous and nearly dry. The juice from old ginger roots is extremely potent and is often used as a spice in Indian recipes, and is an quintessential ingredient of Chinese Cuisine, Japanese Cuisine and many South Asian cuisines for flavoring dishes such as seafood or goat meat and vegetarian cuisine.
Ginger acts as a useful food preservative.
Fresh ginger can be substituted for ground ginger at a ratio of 6 to 1, although the flavors of fresh and dried ginger are somewhat different. Powdered dry ginger root is typically used as a flavoring for recipes such as gingerbread, cookies, crackers and cake, ginger ale, and ginger beer.
Fresh ginger may be peeled before eating. For longer-term storage, the ginger can be placed in a plastic bag and refrigerated or frozen.
Medicinal use
The medical form of ginger historically was called Jamaica ginger; it was classified as a stimulant and carminative, and used frequently for dyspepsia and colic. It was also frequently employed to disguise the taste of medicines. Ginger is on the FDA's "generally recognized as safe" list, though it does interact with some medications, including warfarin. Ginger is contraindicated in people suffering from gallstones as it promotes the production of bile.Ginger may also decrease pain from arthritis, though studies have been inconsistent, and may have blood thinning and cholesterol lowering properties that may make it useful for treating heart disease.
Diarrhea
Ginger compounds are active against a form of diarrhea which is the leading cause of infant death in developing countries. Zingerone is likely to be the active constituent against enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin-induced diarrhea.
Nausea
Ginger has been found effective in multiple studies for treating nausea caused by seasickness, morning sickness and chemotherapy, though ginger was not found superior over a placebo for pre-emptively treating post-operative nausea. Ginger is a safe remedy for nausea relief during pregnancy.[Ginger as a remedy for motion sickness is still a debated issue. The television program Mythbusters performed an experiment using one of their staff who suffered from severe motion sickness. The staff member was placed in a moving device which, without treatment, produced severe nausea. Multiple treatments were administered. None, with the exception of the ginger and the two most common drugs, were successful. The staff member preferred the ginger due to lack of side effects. Several studies over the last 20 years were inconclusive with some studies in favor of the herb and some not. A common thread in these studies is the lack of sufficient participants to yield statistical proof. Another issue is the lack of a known chemical pathway for the supposed relief.
Folk medicine
A variety of uses are suggested for ginger. Tea brewed from ginger is a folk remedy for colds. Three to four leaves of Tulsi taken along with a piece of ginger on an empty stomach is considered an effective cure for congestion, cough and cold.[citation needed] Ginger ale and ginger beer have been recommended as stomach settlers for generations in countries where the beverages are made, and ginger water was commonly used to avoid heat cramps in the United States. In China, "ginger eggs" (scrambled eggs with finely diced ginger root) is a common home remedy for coughing[citation needed] The Chinese also make a kind of dried ginger candy that is fermented in plum juice and sugared which is also commonly consumed to suppress coughing. Ginger has also been historically used to treat inflammation, which several scientific studies support, though one arthritis trial showed ginger to be no better than a placebo or ibuprofen for treatment of osteoarthritis.Research on rats suggests that ginger may be useful for treating diabetes.
Regional medicinal use
A pack of ginger powder,In the West, powdered dried ginger root is made into capsules and sold in pharmacies for medicinal use.
* In Burma, ginger and a local sweetener made from palm tree juice (Htan nyat) are boiled together and taken to prevent the flu.
* In China, ginger is included in several traditional preparations. A drink made with sliced ginger cooked in water with brown sugar or a cola is used as a folk medicine for the common cold.
* In Congo, ginger is crushed and mixed with mango tree sap to make tangawisi juice, which is considered a panacea.
* In India, ginger is applied as a paste to the temples to relieve headache and consumed when suffering from the common cold, people use ginger for making tea, in food etc. Ginger with lemon and black salt is also used for nausea
* In Indonesia, ginger ("Jahe" in Indonesian) is used as a herbal preparation to reduce fatigue, reducing "winds" in the blood, prevent and cure rheumatism and controlling poor dietary habits.
* In the Philippines a traditional health drink called "salabat" is made for breakfast by boiling chopped ginger and adding sugar; it is considered good for a sore throat.
* In the United States, ginger is used to prevent motion and morning sickness. It is recognized as safe by the Food and Drug Administration and is sold as an unregulated dietary supplement.
Labels: Diarrhea, drinks, ginger, health, Nausea
Newer Post Older Post Home
More Articles
Neem (ആര്യവേപ്പ് )
Neem (Azadirachta indica) is a tree in the mahogany family Meliaceae. It is one of two species in the genus Azadirachta, and is native to...
Amazing benefits of Eating Watermelon....
It Contains Nutrients and Beneficial Plant Compounds Improve Digestion... Good for Skin and Hair... Improve Heart Health... ...
Plants Used In Medicine
A few herbal remedies have conclusively demonstrated any positive effect on humans, mainly because of inadequate testing. many of the studie...
You don’t Need to Buy Expensive Shampoos from the Market
fenugreek have proved worth in treating variety of hair problems such as hair fall, dandruff, baldness, dry hair etc... fenu...
Relief from Cough within 5 minutes by Pineapple
Drink Pineapple juice 3 times a day Pineapples contain Bromelain Anti inflammatory Properties Fighting with cough and give Re...
Suffering Irregular Periods....
Ginger tea is very effective for periods and menstrual.Boil water with grated ginger and add some honey to taste.Drink this tea t...
Aloe vera (കറ്റാര്‍ വാഴ)
uses of Aloe vera (കറ്റാര്‍ വാഴ) Aloe vera leaves when cut exude two fluids, with differing effects and properties. The yellow/green sa...
Health Benefits of Breastfeeding
Health Benefits of Baby & Mother Breastfeeding decreases the risk of a number of diseases in both mothers and babies. The US Pr...
A Juice Can Control your Diabetics Naturaly...
Bitter gourd juice helps to prevent the rise of blood sugar levels.... Antioxidant Property helps to rejuvenate the body ce...
Jackfruit is the Jack of All Fruits
Jack fruits have best Calories and Boost Energy It has high Vitamin C and Optimizes Immune System Jack fruits are control ...
Simple theme. Powered by Blogger.