Lower Your Cholesterol without Simple Lifestyle change
Skip to main content
Healthy-ojas
Vital info for healthier life
Search form
Search
Diabetes
Cholesterol
Hypertension
Low BP
Eye
Sleep
Natural
Calculators
High Cholesterol
High cholesterol Info
Lipid History
Cholesterol symptoms
Cholesterol causes
Cholesterol risk factors
Cholesterol screening
Cholesterol testing
Advanced Lipid Tests
Heart Condition Tests
Cholesterol lowering tips
Cholesterol foods/diets
Cholesterol lowering fibers
Omega3 cholesterol
Weight cholesterol
Physical activities
Heart attack prevention
Cholesterol medication
Cholesterol natural
High Cholesterol risks
You are here
Home»Cholesterol Lifestyle Change
Cholesterol Lifestyle Change
Submitted by Thiruvelan on 23 Jun 2010 | Last updated 18 December 2017
Ads by Google
The cholesterol lifestyle change is a set of healthy habits. It helps to lower your cholesterol levels with-or-without medication.
One of the first duties of the physician is to educate the masses not to take medicine. - Sir William Osler, MD (1849-1919).
Sir William Osler was a Canadian physician and one of the four founding professors of Johns Hopkins Hospital. He is always described as the "Father of Modern Medicine."
Simple proved High cholesterol lifestyle change
If you are with determination, then you can lower cholesterol in a healthy way. To make it happen, you need to change your daily activities.
Today, more than 95% of all chronic disease is caused by food choice, toxic food ingredients, nutritional deficiencies and lack of physical exercise. ~ Mike Adams
First, you should know why your blood cholesterol level is high? High cholesterol is a sign of other health conditions. Such conditions are hypothyroidism, fatty liver, infections, food allergy, leaky guts, and kidney disease. Additionally, cholesterol raises for momentarily during weight loss and new to low carb diet.
In some cases, it is difficult to predict the high cholesterol cause. Even such person can lower their cholesterol level with lifestyle modification and supplementation. For effective cholesterol management, you should support your body to back its healthy state.
6 Simple lifestyle change to lower cholesterol
​Choose healthy food;
Increase in physical activity;
If you are overweight, lose weight;
If you are a smoker, stop smoking;
If you are a drinker, stop or reduce alcohol;
Take vitamin K, D, C, B9, etc. and mineral magnesium supplementation.
Cholesterol-lowering diet or food
Let food be thy medicine and medicine be thy food ~ Hippocrates
By eating healthy foods and avoiding unhealthy foods, you can lower your cholesterol level.
Stop or at least reduce all sugary foods and drinks from the diet.
High carbohydrate diet increases your triglyceride level. High triglyceride is a major heart disease contributor and metabolic syndrome.
Eat fiber rich foods, prefer soluble fiber rich foods, if your body accept it.
Ban man-made trans-fat in all form.
Flaxseed helps to lower total cholesterol and LDL-C. Also, help increases fat excretion.
Taking certain plant products rich in sterols (e.g. Phytosterols) in your diet help lower your LDL.
Regular fish consumption or omega3 supplementations can lower triglyceride level and raises HDL-C.
Cholesterol-lowering food is a guide for healthier food choices to lower your cholesterol number.
Increase physical activity
Those who think they have no time for exercise will sooner or later have to find time for illness. ~ Edward Stanley
The next step is doing regular exercise to lower your cholesterol. Exercise lowers your cholesterol levels; additionally, it provides flexible, energetic, and improved wellness.
Physical activity or exercising for 30 minutes on most of the days in a week help lower cholesterol. Exercising betterment your cholesterol numbers; increased HDL, lowered LDL, and reduced triglyceride. Learn more by visiting physical activity to improve cholesterol number.
Obese or overweight
Being overweight is being halfway sick. ~ Sicilian Proverb.
Obesity may be a reason for elevated cholesterol level. You have to take necessary steps to lose weight.
You are considering as obese if your waist size is larger than 40-inches in men and 35-inches in women. You are considering as overweight if your BMI (body mass index) is greater than 25. Learn more by visiting lose weight to improve your cholesterol number.
Cholesterol Supplements
Cholesterol supplements improve your cholesterol number. Some of these supplements are vitamin B3, Sterols or Stanols, Omega 3 and soluble fibers.
Niacin or vitamin B3, taken in large doses (1 to 3 grams a day), is a drug. It lowers LDL cholesterol (by up to 30%), boosts HDL cholesterol, and reduces triglycerides. Recommended for people with low HDL and elevated triglycerides. Use under medical supervision.
Sterols or Stanols is a plant compound interfere with absorption of dietary cholesterol. Two daily grams lowers LDL cholesterol (by 9 to 20 %). Recommended dosage is 400 milligrams of sterols per dose, for a daily total of 800 milligrams.
Certain fishes are rich in omega-3 fatty acid. This fishes increases HDL cholesterol and is beneficial for your heart. You might eat these fishes two to three times per week. Otherwise, take Omega-3-supplement. Learn more by visiting Omega 3 cholesterol supplement.
Soluble fibers limit dietary cholesterol absorption and improve intestinal health. Soluble fiber is in oat bran, barley, nuts, seeds, beans, lentils, peas, and some fruits and vegetables. The most commonly used fiber supplement is psyllium. Learn more by visiting cholesterol-lowering fiber foods
Quit Smoking & Limit Alcohol
Cigarettes are a classical way to commit suicide.
If you are a smoker, stop smoking can lower your cholesterol level. Also, it improves your health by all means.
Heavy drinker should restrict alcohol consumption, it reduces liver strain and improves cholesterol number.
Cigarette smoking and serum lipid and lipoprotein concentrations: an analysis of published data BMJ. Mar 25, 1989; 298(6676): 784–788. Smokers have higher serum concentrations of cholesterol (3.0%), triglycerides (9.1%), VLDL-C (10.4%), and LDL-C (1.7%) and lower serum concentrations of HDL-C (-5.7%), and apolipoprotein-AI (-4.2%) compared with nonsmokers.
Ads by Google
Recommended for you
About us
Contact us
Disclaimer
Advertisement Policy
Bibliography
Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Use
&
Privacy Policy
Health information is written and reviewed by Healthy-ojas team. The health content on this site is intended as a sharing of knowledge & information, and not to replace a relationship with a qualified health care professional. Always seek the advice of a Doctor or other Health Care Profession regarding any question you have about your health conditions, diagnosis, and treatments.
2019 Healthy-ojas - Copyrighted