What’s the difference between oral and genital herpes? | Genital Herpes Clinic - Everything About Herpes
Genital Herpes Clinic - Thursday, April 25, 2019
News Feed Comments
Genital Herpes Clinic - Everything About Herpes
Because it can happen to anyone!
Home
Genital Herpes Remedies
Genital Herpes Books
Contact
About
Genital Herpes Tips
Genital Herpes Resource
Discussion
Books
You are here: Home / Discussion / What’s the difference between oral and genital herpes?
What’s the difference between oral and genital herpes?
May 22, 2010 by admin
Filed under Discussion
8 Comments
For example: If a girl has oral herpes and she sucks my dick, will i get genital herpes/warts or any type of STD
Tags: between, difference, genital, herpes...., oral, What's
Comments
8 Responses to “What’s the difference between oral and genital herpes?”
Al LeGator says:
May 22, 2010 at 4:15 am
It is possible for her to pass on what is usually the HSV-1 strain of the Herpes virus (usually associated with cold sores) to your genitals. usually HSV-2 is found on the genitals. Each can transfer to the opposite site but not as easily as they would go to their “preferred”, usual site.
She’d be most contagious when she has an outbreak of course though there is a small chance of her shedding the virus before a sore shows up on her mouth.
MyOpinion says:
May 22, 2010 at 5:11 am
WHY would any girl want to suck on your butt to start with?
Kiara says:
May 22, 2010 at 5:26 am
Herpes is a virus that can spread from person to person through skin-to-skin contact. It can appear on many different areas of the body and is typically marked by an eruption of a cluster of blisters, although some people show very mild or no symptoms at all. Understanding the two different types of the Herpes simplex virus (HSV) is an important part of understanding herpes and its role in our society. Under a microscope, HSV-1 and 2 are virtually identical, sharing approximately 50% of their DNA. Both types infect the body’s mucosal surfaces, usually the mouth or genitals, and then establish latency in the nervous system. For both types, at least two-thirds of infected people have no symptoms, or symptoms too mild to notice. However, both types can recur and spread even when no symptoms are present.
The primary difference between the two viral types is in where they typically establish latency in the body – their “site of preference.” HSV-1 usually establishes latency in the trigeminal ganglion, a collection of nerve cells near the ear. From there, it tends to recur on the lower lip or face. HSV-2 usually sets up residence in the sacral ganglion at the base of the spine. From there, it recurs in the genital area.
Jenifer says:
May 22, 2010 at 5:42 am
Maybe this help so be informed and take care my dear
Rachell says:
May 22, 2010 at 5:57 am
• HSV Type 1 is a type of herpes that is usually transmitted from person to person by kissing or sharing forks, spoons and other eating utensils when one person has sores present. Usually sores from HSV Type 1 are found around the mouth, but can also occur in the genital area.
• HSV Type 2 also typically causes sores in the genital area, and on some occasions around the mouth. It is HSV type 2 that can be passed from a mother with genital herpes to her child during vaginal childbirth, and is generally spread from person to person through sexual contact.
LINDSEY S says:
May 22, 2010 at 6:54 am
Mainly their preference of location, oral herpes typically affects the mouth. Genital herpes likes to live on the genitals. Oral herpes (what causes cold sores) can be passed to the genitals if oral sex is given while there are any signs of a cold sore. Genital herpes can be but isn’t commonly passed to the mouth. HSV1 and HSV2 come from the same herpes virus, they are different strands of it. Genital warts is another issue all together, genital warts are not herpes.
shadylady25 says:
May 22, 2010 at 7:10 am
There are two herpes viruses, one prefers the mouth (the virus hsv-1), and one prefers the genitals (the virus hsv-2).
But each is still happy to infect the other area. The ony difference between them is that when they are in their favourite site, they cause a stronger infection with more frequent outbreaks than they do if they are on their least favourite site.
So if a girl has oral herpes, and performs oral sex on you, you could still get genital herpes, but it would be caused by hsv-1, the herpes virus that has a preference for the mouth, so you would get a milder case of genital herpes with less frequent outbreaks than if you had caught genital herpes caused by the herpes virus hsv-2, which is better adapted to the genitals.
Warts is an unrelated virus. Technically, you can get most stds through oral sex, though the risk is lower than for intercourse. However, she would have to have those stds in her mouth in order to pass them on to you, and they are NOT related to oral herpes.
As for oral herpes, it is VERY infectious when a cold sore is present, but there is still a small risk when the girl has no symptoms, so you could still end up with genital herpes.
Medic Tiffany W says:
May 22, 2010 at 7:14 am
yes – you can get genital herpes from her….
P.S. genital herpes and genital warts are different type of virus!
Speak Your Mind
Tell us what you're thinking...
and oh, if you want a pic to show with your comment, go get a gravatar!
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website
nine − 5 =
Name :
Email :
Recommended Ebook: HerpesWise
Herpeset
Sponsor
Follow Our Twitter
Join Our Facebook Page
Genital Herpes Clinic – Everything About Herpes Copyright © 2019 · All Rights Reserved · Powered by WordPress · Privacy Policy · Log in