The Wonderful World of Oil Pulling
Home
Our Mission
Contact Information
Follow Us On Facebook
Gut Health Project
A Healthy Life Starts In Your Gut!
Digestive System
Digestive System Articles
Digestive Disorders
Digestive Disorders Articles
Bowel Obstruction
Irritable Bowel Syndrome – IBS
Leaky Gut Syndrome
Probiotics
Clean Eating
Clean Eating Articles
Detox and Cleanse
Cleanse
Cleanse Articles
Health Tips
Weight Loss
Holistic Medicine
Home Remedies
Recipes
Are You At Risk Of Developing Gut Disease? Find Out Today With Our FREE Health Assessment.
24,338People have completed the Gut Health Assessment.
Don't get left behind! Click HERE to take the assessment.
Health Tips, Home Remedies, Latest Gut Health Articles
The Wonderful World of Oil Pulling
By Gut Health Project | October 15, 2016
7shares
12Facebook
7Twitter
16Pinterest
35shares
12Facebook
7Twitter
16Pinterest
From squeaky hinges to your best bathroom buddy, coconut oil has a wide array of uses for everyone. It can be used as a substitute for your lotion, moisturizer, or hair conditioner. It can be used to get that old sticky gum in your hair. It can also be used to make your ordinary dishes taste even better.
One of the many uses of coconut oil is oil pulling. It is an oral detoxification process that pulls bacteria and other toxins from the mouth and creates a clean antiseptic environment. This process aids the flow of dental liquid needed to fight cavities and diseases.
Oil pulling is done simply by swishing a tablespoon of oil in your mouth, just like mouth wash, only for a longer period of time. Studies show that this reduces gingivitis-induced plaque and bacteria that causes tooth decay after only 10 days. Although, this should not be considered a substitute for other oral health regimens.
Reasons You Should Try Coconut Oil Pulling
Cures tooth decay
Kills bad breath
Prevents heart disease
Reduces inflammation
Whitens teeth
Soothes throat dryness
Prevents cavities
Heals cracked lips
Boosts the immune system
Improves acne
Strengthens gums and jaw
The best ingredient for oil pulling is coconut oil. Why? It is because it contains Lauric acid that is proven to be anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial. It fights gingivitis and other oral conditions.
Coconut oil is also known to do the following:
Reduce cellulite, wrinkles, and age spots
Moisturize skin
Increase HDL
Lower HDL
Burn fat
Balance hormones
Kill candida
Improve digestion
Balance blood sugar
Improve energy
Prevent and improve Alzheimer’s
Coconut oil pulling has been practiced for generations. This was very common in India and was used mainly in Ayurvedic medicine, one of the world’s oldest holistic healing system. Some practitioners believe that the section of the tongue is connected to different organs, like the kidneys, lungs, and liver.
How-to Guide
One can easily start with just 5 minutes a day. Swishing for 20 minutes a day is a long time. The longer one pulls, the more chances of bacteria being pulled out. There are 3 things one should remember:
1. Don’t work too hard.
2. Don’t swallow.
3. Don’t skip brushing and flossing.
Sources
http://www.webmd.com/oral-health/features/oil-pulling
https://draxe.com/oil-pulling-coconut-oil/https://draxe.com/oil-pulling-coconut-oil/
https://cocotreasure.com/coconut-oil-lip-balm/
http://www.healthable.org/organic-coconut-oil-its-health-perks-and-uses/
Author Bio
Author Name: Nadine Escudero
Nadine is a wandering writer and blogger. She loves traveling and exploring new places, and finding hole-in-the-wall dining places. As a wannabe cook, she loves discovering new recipes and ingredients, like the versatile coconut oil (and yes, she uses it on just about anything and everything). On lazy days, Nadine is spending time at the beach with her fur-babies, Pepe, and Pido.
35shares
12Facebook
7Twitter
16Pinterest
I Love Eating Organic
Gut Health Project recommends Perfect Biotics to ensure a healthy gut. Add this probiotic to your daily routine!
Also, take Perfect Flush to eliminate waste and toxins.
A Healthy Life Begins in Your Gut!
Copyright © 2016 - Present GutHealthProject™
Digestive System
Digestive Disorders
Functional Medicine
Clean Eating
Cleanse
Health Tips
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Contact Information
© Copyright 2019 Gut Health Project