Popular Health benefits of Omega 3 Fish Oil - Fitnessgenie
Home
Exercise
Fitness Tip
Nutrition
Diet
Quotes
Product Reviews
Remember Me
Lost your password?
Home
Exercise
Fitness Tip
Nutrition
Diet
Quotes
Product Reviews
Search
Home
Fitness Tip
Popular Health benefits of Omega 3 Fish Oil
What is Omega 3 Fish oil
omega-3s in fish oil are eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), while the omega-3 in plant sources is mainly alpha-linolenic acid (ALA).Omega-3 fatty acid plays a crucial role in maintaining the normal brain function and is important for its growth and development too. It supports brain development during infancy and helps maintain healthy brain throughout life. Omega-3 DHA is a vital component of brain and nerve tissue, and is essential for brain and eye development.
This Omega 3 supplement has enriched with various types of antioxidants that protects your cells from the damage caused by free radicals. These supplements are high in omega-3 fatty acids and include Vitamin A, D and E that deliver an antioxidant in your body. It is the effective element that can lower the chances of heart diseases and high blood pressure. These types of supplements make your life healthier and active.
Health benefits of Omega 3 Fish Oil Capsules & Supplements
Cholesterol levels
Omega 3 fish oil is known to reduce liver triglyceride, it helps to improve cholesterol by reducing VLDL and elevating good cholesterol i.e. HDL. According to a study, the efficiency of fish oil in lowering cholesterol triglyceride levels is more pronounced any other source of omega 3.
Helps to control Blood Pressure
fish oil as an effective means of lowering high blood pressure in patients suffering from hypertension. According to its report, fish oil supplements lower blood pressure in a very small way in hypertensive patients. Research conducted at the Channing Laboratory in Boston has revealed that moderate doses of fish oil supplements have little effect on the condition of high blood pressure in normotensive people.
Hair Care
It helps maintain a good luster of the hair because omega-3 has growth stimulating properties since it provides nourishment to the follicles. It aids in the development of hair and in preventing hair loss. A good supply of protein is also necessary for hair growth, and since most fish varieties are rich in protein, eating fish helps to keep hair healthy.
Help Reduce Weight and Waist Circumference
A combination of fish oil supplements and regular exercise can reduce body fat while also improving heart and metabolic health. The fish supplementation group had lowered triglycerides, increased HDL cholesterol and improved blood flow.
Support Eye Health and Help Protect Vision in Old Age
Due to the high EPA and DHA levels in fish oil, it was concluded that this kind of nutritional intervention could especially benefit those at high risk for neovascular age-related macular degeneration.A higher intake of polyunsaturated fats like those found in fish and fish oils have also been linked to reduced levels of cortical cataracts.
Reduce Inflammation and Symptoms of Inflammatory Disease
Fish oil is effective in reducing inflammation in the blood and tissues. Regular consumption of fish oil supplements, tablets, pills, and capsules is helpful to those who suffer from chronic inflammatory diseases. Fish oil is effective in treating gastrointestinal disorders, Celiac disease, short bowel syndrome and inflammatory bowel disease.
Work as an Anti-aging
Several studies across the globe proved that regular intake of omega 3 is linked with an individuals age. Sources like salmon, mackerel, tuna, herring, etc provide rich amount of omega 3 which slow down the affect of ageing. In addition, Omega 3 improves skin and helps to reduce wrinkles.
Protect from Alzheimer & Dementia
Omega 3 fatty acids has emphasized in protecting nervous system with help of well balanced diet. Fish oils has played an important role to lower the risk of Alzheimer and dementia, a neuron linked brain disorders. According to research, omega 3 has positive impact on memory loss and ageing. A healthy mind always excite the nerve cells in brain and remain functional in order to resist the complication of depression, schizophrenia and bipolar disorders.
Prevent Type 2 Diabetes
According to the study in Finland, people who consumed omega 3 twice a week were found 30 % less susceptible to develop diabetes that those who did not. Omega 3 fat play an important in secretion of certain hormones like prostaglandins which is responsible to regulate physiological functions such as, blood pressure, blood glucose level, and allergies, etc.
DHA affects your children growth & Development
A study revealed that low level of DHA in children can result in poor memory and behavioural problems. Another study published where the researchers mentioned that supplementing omega 3 in a child significantly increase the mental capability and behavioural pattern. Omega 3 helps to over come from leaning, reading disabilities,promote neuronal growth and improves cerebral circulation in brain.
It Helps Improve Symptoms of Depression and Anxiety
The fish oil reversed all anxiety-like and depression-like behaviour changes induced in rats. This is an interesting study because it stresses the importance of supplementing with fish oil at “critical periods of brain development
Prevent Coronary Heart Diseases
fish oil significantly reduced the risk of coronary heart diseases by 40%. Another evidence from America where men who consumed fish oil every week showed more than 50% reduced risk of dying from cardiac strokes. Omega 3 not only regulate blood pressure in heart
benefits of Omega 3 Fish Oil Capsulesfish oil capsules for weight lossfish oil for hair careFish oil supplementsHealth Benefits of Fish oilomega 3 fatty acid benefitsomega 3 fatty acid for anti agingomega 3 fish oil supplements
Previous ArticleTop and Best 5 V Shape Back Workout at Gym
Next ArticleWhat is protein and its role in the human body
Related Posts
LOSE WEIGHT WITH 10 HEALTHY & DELICIOUS SMOOTHIES
5 worst foods for Pre-Workout
8 Superfoods for Your Healthy Heart
Sinew Elevate Mass Gainer Review – Things You Need to Know
Minimum Viable Exercise and Training
Weight Gain Tips for Girls
Leave a Reply Cancel Reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name*
Email*
Website
Search
Popular Post
Best Reasons to Exercise and Workout In the Morning
14 Comments
How Nutrition Does Improve Fitness?
11 Comments
How to Solve the Biggest Problems With Bowel movement
9 Comments
Most Effective Natural Home Remedy For Weight Loss?
7 Comments
The type of fat you eat matters!
6 Comments
FitnessGenie is a fitness blog that shares latest trends about Fitness and Gym. We also share various fitness tips and healthcare ideas. For any suggestion / feedback, Please mail us at genie@fitnessgenie.in.
Latest Articles
Weight Gain Tips for Girls December 14, 2018
Health Benefits of Tulsi (Holy Basil) Herb November 29, 2018
Sinew Nutrition Chia seeds- Product Review October 29, 2018
Best mass gainer supplements in India September 29, 2018
Best 5 Reasons Green tea Is Good For You July 23, 2018
Categories
Diet (14)
Exercise (13)
Fitness Tip (37)
Nutrition (21)
Product Reviews (4)
Quotes (3)
Uncategorized (1)
Home
Exercise
Fitness Tip
Nutrition
Diet
Quotes
Product Reviews
© 2016 - FitnessGenie.in. All Rights Reserved. ThemeTF -WordPress