Essential Oils For Nausea, Motion Sickness, Morning Sickness
Menu
Nutrition
Healthy Foods And Recipes
Nutrients And Supplements
Unhealthy Foods
Weight Loss
Diet Plans
Pills And Supplements
Procedures And Medication
Weight Loss Basics
Weight Loss Foods
Mental Health
Addictions
Disorders
Psychology
Self-Improvement
Remedies
Conditions
Home Remedies
OTC Remedies
Skin Care
Acne
Basic Skin Care
Conditions And Remedies
Skin Rejuvenation
Hair Care
Basic Hair Care
Hair Growth
Hair Loss
Hair Treatments
Health News
Home
>
Remedies
>
Conditions
>
Essential Oils For Nausea, Motion Sickness, Morning Sickness
Essential Oils For Nausea, Motion Sickness, Morning Sickness
Elizabeth Williams, B.Sc, CCD Conditions, Home Remedies, Remedies
Everyone experiences nausea feelings at some time or another.
It is a very disturbing feeling in the stomach that causes a lot of discomfort and uneasiness.
However, you can easily bring down the intense feeling of nausea within a short time by using natural remedies or OTC medicines.
Essential oils for nausea are an adequate remedy worth trying.
Essential oils are also utilized for managing motion sickness, vomiting, pregnancy nausea, and morning sickness.
Ginger oil and peppermint oil for nausea are the best oils we have discovered among the many essential oils available to you.
Besides the essential oils, other natural remedies like Chamomile Tea, Cannabis Oil, Vitamin B6, and Ginger are also popularly used for getting rid of nausea.
Over-the-counter antihistamines like dimenhydrinate are the most commonly used mainstream medicines for getting rid of motion sickness, vomiting, nausea, and dizziness.
A Little About Nausea
Nausea is the uncomfortable sensation in the stomach that makes you feel like throwing up or puke.
When you have nausea, you might experience a queasy feeling that ranges from slightly uncomfortable to agonizing.
Along with nausea feeling, you might also experience clammy skin and grumbling or lurching stomach.
It is not necessary that feeling of nausea will every time make you vomit. Most of the time nausea subsides after an hour or two without making you puke.
Number one reason for nausea is a viral infection, which also known as stomach flu.
Other common causes of nausea are motion sickness, morning sickness, indigestion, allergic reactions, microbial infections, ill-health, over-eating, food poisoning, and pregnancy.
Do Essential Oils for Nausea Work?
In a 2013 study published in Anesthesia & Analgesia, surgical patients were given three different aromatherapy relief treatments for nausea.
They were cardamom essential oils, isopropyl alcohol or a blend of ginger, spearmint, and peppermint.
The results of the study indicated that patients who smelled either ginger oil or a blend of essential oils had a significant reduction in post-surgery nausea feeling.
Essential oils contain natural medicinal properties that help your body in several ways to calm down the upset stomach and reduce nausea feeling.
They not only remove nausea but also help to relax the mind and body. EOs promote sound sleep and refresh and energize your body.
They can help in eliminating microbial infections that may cause nausea.
They do not have any serious side effects unlike the prescription medicines mostly made of synthetic chemicals.
If you regularly experience nausea due to stomach irritation, vertigo, pregnancy, gastrointestinal reflux, or other common conditions, essential oils might be a helpful treatment.
Best Essential Oils For Nausea, Motion Sickliness, Vomiting, And Morning Sickness
Essential oils are the highly concentrated version of the natural oils extracted from different plant sources.
Fortunately, there are a wide variety of plant oils available to you with many therapeutic properties inherent in them.
A few of the essential oils are extremely beneficial for calming down nausea, vomiting, morning sickness, motion sickness, and pregnancy nausea.
Here are 10 essential oils that work well for nausea:
[toc]
1. Ginger Oil
Ginger root and ginger oil are traditional remedies for treating nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
There is no scientific explanation on how does ginger work for easing nausea. It is believed that gingerol directly affects the digestive and central nervous systems.
Ginger ale is beneficial for treating common stomach problems like indigestion, acid reflux, and stomach flu.
Ginger oil is useful for getting fast relief from stomach aches and diarrhea.
Inhaling the aroma of raw ginger or ginger oil is found to be effective for managing pregnancy nausea and vomiting.
According to Lauren Richter, DO, assistant professor at the Center for Integrative Medicine at the University of Maryland School of Medicine in Baltimore, “It’s an excellent treatment for nausea, especially in pregnancy.”
Study reports suggest that aromatherapy with ginger oil is effective for surgical patients who suffer frequent nausea and upset stomach.
Smelling ginger oil can clam down motion sickness and vomiting.
2. Peppermint Oil
Peppermint, both its oil and leaves, is fantastic for fighting common stomach ailments.
According to an NCCIH report, peppermint helps in dealing with indigestion and irritable bowel syndrome.
Another study published in 2014 in the Journal of PeriAnesthesia Nursing states that inhaling the aroma of peppermint oil can ease nausea and calm down vomiting.
Peppermint herbal tea is excellent for solving common digestive issues.
The antispasmodic and antiemetic properties present in peppermint oil can effectively reduce vomiting, nausea feeling, motion sickness and morning sickness.
However, there are also studies that negate the effectiveness of this oil in dealing with nausea during pregnancy.
According to a 2012 study report published by Iranian Red Crescent Medical Journal showed that peppermint essential oil hasn’t got any effect on calming down nausea and vomiting of pregnancy.
3. Lavender Oil
Lavender oil possesses natural sedative and soothing qualities which can relieve the spasms and discomfort associated with nausea.
This oil can also calm down dizziness if that is the cause of your nausea.
Going by the therapeutic potency of lavender oil, it is encouraging to use this oil for treating vomiting, nausea, sour stomach and motion sickness.
Inhaling the aroma of lavender oil calms both body and mind; removes anxiety and depression.
This oil is particularly beneficial for dealing with nausea caused by anxiety and physical exhaustion.
4. Chamomile Oil
Chamomile oil, leaves, and roots are extensively used in traditional medicines to treat digestive disorders and upset stomach.
Chamomile herbal tea is popularly used for dealing with health issues such as nausea, irritable bowel syndrome, cramps, gastroenteritis, and stomach flu.
Chamomile oil and extracts are used for treating gastrointestinal disturbances like vomiting, nausea, motion sickness, and diarrhea.
5. Lemon Oil
Lemon is one of the finest natural remedies for preventing motion sickness.
According to a study published in 2014 by Iranian Red Crescent Medical Journal indicated lemon scent could be effective in reducing nausea and vomiting during pregnancy.
Aromatherapy with lemon oil can be a big advantage in the first trimester when morning sickness is the most common.
6. Fennel Oil
Fennel oil is a powerful natural remedy for reducing nausea, motions sickness, vomiting, and indigestion.
Fennel seeds and oil, like mint, contain certain anesthetic substances that help to reduce queasiness.
You can make a cup of herbal tea with a tablespoon of fennel seeds or drink a glass of warm water with 2 drops of fennel oil diluted in it for overcoming pregnancy nausea and morning sickness.
Fennel oil and extracts are excellent natural laxative and stimulant that can make your digestive system healthy to ward off common stomach ailments.
7. Orange Oil
The sweet aroma of the orange oil and peels uplift up your moods and relieves stress and anxiety.
According to research published in 2013 by Advanced Biomedical Research, when 30 children were administered aromatherapy with orange oil, the researchers found that the children had reduced cortisol levels. It also reduced the pulse rates which led to decreased anxiety in children.
This oil is especially beneficial for calming down nausea or vomiting caused by anxiety, stress, and physical exhaustion.
Orange oil can be very well be blended with ginger, lemon or lavender oil to get rid of nausea and vomiting.
8. Nutmeg Oil
Nutmeg and mace are commonly used in folklore remedies for diarrhea, nausea, stomach spasms and pain, and intestinal gas.
Nutmeg oil is also beneficial for boosting immunity and strengthening the nervous system.
This oil is beneficial for easing common digestive problems.
You can add 5 to 6 drops of this oil in warm bath water to get relief from nausea.
Make a blend of 3 drops of nutmeg oil with a carrier oil and use this oil blend as a massage oil to help address appetite loss, nausea, gas, constipation, diarrhea, and gallstones.
9. Spearmint Oil
Spearmint essential oil has proven benefits in preventing or relieving nausea from chemotherapy.
According to a medical study using spearmint oil reduced nausea that is induced by chemotherapy better than standard medical treatments.
The quality and effectiveness of spearmint oil for treating nausea and vomiting is very much akin to the peppermint oil.
Spearmint calms the body and helps you to relax. It is also an antiseptic and a disinfectant.
Simply adding a drop of spearmint oil to water, or rubbing 1-2 drops behind your ears help in calming down nausea.
Inhaling a few drops of spearmint oil diffused in the air can bring instant effect on nausea and an upset stomach by making you feel better right away.
10. Bergamot Oil
Sweet smelling bergamot oil is excellent for aromatherapy to reduce nausea feeling and vomiting. Its aroma is similar to the orange oil.
This oil can be used in essential oil blends for treating dizziness, lightheadedness, and nausea.
Inhaling the aroma of bergamot oil can relieve anxiety and stress which may cause nausea feeling.
Inhaling the scent of this oil can help in preventing motion sickness.
How to Use Essential Oils For Treating Nausea and Vomiting?
Essential oils can be used in a variety of ways to achieve quick relief from nausea, vomiting, motions sickness, and pregnancy nausea.
Here are some of the best ways to make use of essential oils for vomiting and nausea:
Ingestion:
Ingesting 2 drops of your choicest essential oil diluted in a glass of warm water can give relief from indigestion and gas in the stomach that may induce nausea feeling.
Ginger and peppermint oils are suitable for ingestion.
Only a few of the essential oils are fit for ingesting.
Consult your aroma-therapist to get professional advice on consuming the essential oils.
Inhalation:
Use a diffuser to diffuse a few drops of essential oil in your bedroom and then inhale the aroma of the oil for several minutes.
Alternatively, you can try steam inhalation method. Use a Steamer Vaporizer pot to do the steam inhalation treatment with essential oils.
As for a simple method, you can add a few drops of essential oil to hot water in a bowl and then inhale the steam emanating from the hot water.
Spritzers:
Using essential oils for inhalation from a spritzer bottle is very convenient especially while you are traveling.
Carry around in your purse a few small spritzer bottles filled with five to ten drops of essential oils of your choice.
Massage:
Rubbing a few drops of essential oil diluted in a carrier oil on your tummy is effective for reducing nausea feeling.
Massaging with essential oil on tummy can also be performed for healing other health issues like indigestion, acid reflux, heartburn, and sour stomach.
You can also massage your feet, behind the ears and back of the neck with essential oils to get relief from nausea and vomiting.
Oil Soaked Cotton Ball:
Apply a few drops of essential oil to a cotton ball or handkerchief and keep it in your pocket. This can be used for inhaling the aroma of essential oil whenever you require.
You can also keep cotton balls soaked in essential oils under your pillow for inhaling the scent of the oil while you rest on the bed.
Oil Bath:
Add a few drops of essential oils to a warm-water-bath.
The aroma of the oil in the water can make your body relaxed and calm down your mind. This is effective for getting rid of nausea caused by anxiety and physical exhaustion.
Cold/Hot Compress:
Add few drops of essential oils to 3 cups of hot or cold water.
Soak a soft hand towel in the water and use it for doing compress on the stomach. The hot or cold compress on the stomach is to be done for minimum of 10 minutes.
Make sure to squeeze out the excess water from the towel before you do the compress.
Carrier Oils:
Always dilute the essential oils in carrier oils before applying it on your skin.
Some of the best carrier oils that you can use are coconut oil, jojoba oil, almond oil, and olive oil.
The Bottom Line
Ginger oil and peppermint oil for nausea is our best recommendation.
You can also use the other essential oil for vomiting depending on the causes of your health condition.
It is important to choose pure and therapeutic grade essential oils to achieve the best results from nausea treatments.
Finally, do not use essential oil for ingesting or applying on your skin without diluting them in carrier oils or warm water.
As with any medications and natural remedies, always use care and caution when using essential oils for nausea, motion sickness, vomiting, and digestion.
If you do not get relief from the symptoms of nausea within 24 hours of using essential oils, then you must make an appointment with your doctor.
Related Articles:
Essential Oils For Yeast Infection | #1 Tea Tree And Oregano Oil
Essential Oils For Ear Infection And Earache That Work
9 Best Essential Oils For Allergies | Blends & Diffuse
Sharing is caring!
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
One Response
Jasilynn January 26, 2018
Nice. Super clean work!
Reply
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Please enable javascript in order to be allowed to comment
Recent Posts
Caralluma Fimbriata Extract Reviews | Side Effects And Results
Cayenne Pepper Weight Loss Diet And Detox Cleanse
Apple Cider Vinegar Pills | Diet & Weight Loss Benefits
Does Acai Berry Weight Loss Pill Work? A Detailed Review
Metabolic Syndrome – Symptoms, Risks And Diets (Video)
Content
Nutrition
Healthy Foods And Recipes
Nutrients And Supplements
Unhealthy Foods
Weight Loss
Diet Plans
Pills And Supplements
Procedures And Medication
Weight Loss Basics
Weight Loss Foods
Mental Health
Addictions
Disorders
Psychology
Self-Improvement
Remedies
Conditions
Home Remedies
OTC Remedies
Skin Care
Acne
Basic Skin Care
Conditions And Remedies
Skin Rejuvenation
Hair Care
Basic Hair Care
Hair Growth
Hair Loss
Hair Treatments
Health News
Inside AHM
About
Archive
Contact
Disclaimer
Legal Policy
Privacy Policy
Popular Posts
Borderline Personality Disorder Criteria For Diagnosis – DSM-5
Top 5 Essential Oils For Lice Prevention and Removal
Magnesium and Weight Loss, Dosage, Dietary Source, Side Effects
Does Magnesium for Constipation Work? (Magnesium Citrate)
Authority Health Magazine – A Research Journal Of Better Health Copyright © 2019. All rights reserved.
The content on this website is intended for informational and educational purposes only. Consult a doctor for medical advice, treatment or diagnosis. Natural remedies shared on this website do not have enough scientific backing to prove their efficacy in healing or preventing diseases.