VacLib.org NEWS
Vaccination_Liberation_Information
NEWS: Autism_News | FluNews | General_(All) | HPV | Legal | Right_To_Refuse | SBS | Science/AdverseEvents | Wakefield | Older_News_IndexPage | Video_Links | Home_page
Autism Related News
Funding halted for Professor Chris Exley, who links vaccines to autism
April 7 2019 by Shanti Das and Jonathan Leake The Sunday Times
A controversial British academic who claims childhood vaccines can cause autism has been blocked from raising research funds after protests by other scientists.
Professor Chris Exley, of Keele University, infuriated health experts by telling parents the aluminium in vaccines given to babies to protect them from diseases such as whooping cough, and in the human papillomavirus vaccine given to teenagers, may cause “severe and disabling” autism.
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8168autsci.php
New Danish MMR Study Shows Autism Rate of 1 in 100—CDC Should Rush to Denmark!
March 07, 2019 By JB Handley, Children’s Health Defense Director and Co-Founder of Generation Rescue
COPENHAGEN, Denmark—We have another “Danish Study” that will invariably be all the talk. It’s too bad no one reads (or understands) the details about these studies that are both funded and researched by vaccine companies (this one is funded by the Novo Nordisk Foundation and research completed by Danish vaccine maker Statens Serum Institut.)
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8201autsci.php
Autism Symptoms in Pets Rise as Pet Vaccination Rates Rise
February 19, 2019 Health Impact News
Pets, especially dogs, have been exhibiting signs of autism, similar to those found in children, and studies are underway to evaluate the possibility that animals can become autistic. Nicholas Dodman, DVM, was looking for a genetic cause of obsessive tail chasing in bull terriers that often results in self-maiming, but instead he discovered numerous symptoms of autism in the dogs. He also found that two biomarkers common to children with autism were also present in the affected dogs. Adverse reactions to vaccination are not uncommon in pets. Globally, the animal vaccine industry has been valued at $6.27 billion in 2015 and is expected to rise to $11.40 billion by 2024.
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8222aut.php
BREAKTHROUGH: Vitamin D supplements taken during pregnancy found to prevent autism in children
January 19, 2019 by: Russel Davis
...
Another study revealed that low vitamin D levels in pregnant women may raise the odds of autism spectrum disorder in children. The researchers examined 4,200 blood samples from pregnant women and their children, and found that pregnant women with low vitamin D levels at 20 weeks of gestation were at an increased risk of having a child with autism-related traits by the age of six. The findings demonstrate that vitamin D deficiency may be linked to the onset of neurodevelopmental disorders, researchers said. Access to safe, inexpensive and publicly available vitamin D supplements in at-risk groups may help stem the prevalence of this risk factor, experts added.
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8258aut.php
How to prevent or reduce risk of food allergies, autism, asthma and type 1 diabetes: From a parent who has been burned
By Vinu Arumugham, December 8, 2018
Injecting food proteins causes the development of food allergies. Vaccines contain numerous food proteins such as peanut, sesame, cow's milk, wheat, corn, gelatin, egg, fish etc. The only option to completely avoid the risk is to avoid vaccines. ...
Similar description applies to autism, asthma and autoimmune disorders such as type 1 diabetes. Details of strategies to reduce risk are described.
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8284aut.php
TRIPLETS all become autistic within hours of vaccination… see shocking video that has the vaccine industry doubling down on lies and disinfo
December 23, 2018 by: Mike Adams
...
As the video shows below, healthy triplets all became autistic within hours of vaccination, once again demonstrating that vaccines cause autism. The parents, the McDowell family in Detroit, Michigan, have spoken out publicly against the horrific medical violence being committed against children every day across America through toxic vaccines. (See AutismTruthNews.com for more reporting on vaccines and autism.)
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8286aut.php
Meta-Analysis madness in vaccine-autism science
BY J.B. HANDLEY April 18, 2018
Inexplicably, a 2014 "meta-analysis" of published science exploring the relationship between vaccines and autism has become the evidence du jour to prove "vaccines don't cause autism." The inadequacies of the 2014 paper are simple to understand, and reveal much about the current environment.
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8293autsci.php
Colorado Lawmakers’ Response to Autism is Two Decades Overdue
Posted by Age of Autism on October 31, 2018 by Pam Long
With 500 students with autism now in every high school graduating year group in Colorado, parents across the state seek a statewide response in both education and Medicaid that will address the lifelong disability needs of 25,000 affected children and adults. In April of the 2018 legislative session, Colorado parents brought forward CO HB18-1223 Declare Autism Epidemic in Colorado.
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8350autleg.php
Brief Report: Forecasting the Economic Burden of Autism in 2015 and 2025 in the United States.
PubMed
Abstract
Few US estimates of the economic burden of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are available and none provide estimates for 2015 and 2025. We forecast annual direct medical, direct non-medical, and productivity costs combined will be $268 billion (range $162-$367 billion; 0.884-2.009 % of GDP) for 2015 and $461 billion (range $276-$1011 billion; 0.982-3.600 % of GDP) for 2025. These 2015 figures are on a par with recent estimates for diabetes and attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and exceed the costs of stroke and hypertension. If the prevalence of ASD continues to grow as it has in recent years, ASD costs will likely far exceed those of diabetes and ADHD by 2025.
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8363aut.php
Paul Offit Reports that "Vaccination is a Violent Act."
October 2, 2018
"Vaccinations arn't easy. This isn't an easy thing to do. We ask a lot of our citizens. To get as many as 26 inoculations in the first few years of life, and five shots at one time. It's hard to do that, especially given that vaccination is a violent act, you pin the child down, you give them this biological agent against their will. The biological agent generally isn’t understood well by the parent, and to some extent not understood all that well by the physician." –Paul Offit
Read rest of original story here:
There is a video on the above page, but if you miss it:
watch on YouTube
File# 8382aut.php
Autistic Kid Pulled From School For Vaccine Refusal
Posted By: Vaxxter Staff 10/04/2018
For some parents and kids, this time of year is the start of lots of new things. But for some, its a frustrating time whereas vaccination policies tend to make the return to school bitter-sweet.
For Rachel Atwood, bitter is hardly a strong enough word to describe her current state of affairs with the Ottawa County school system.
Atwood’s son, Timmy, is autistic. He’s been non-verbal up until just recently, a big accomplishment that should be time for celebration.
However, the Early Childhood Center school system has denied Timmy the ability to attend the school because Rachel doesn’t want him to have the chickenpox vaccine. Atwood says that the risks posed by his dismissal from school are far greater than any risks associated with chickenpox.
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8388aut.php
MORE studies confirm the link between childhood vaccines and autism
September 10, 2018
(Natural News) While the pharmaceutical industry, and their puppets in mainstream medicine and media, continue to claim that there is no link between vaccines and autism, multiple scientific reviews have confirmed what we’ve long suspected: A common vaccine ingredient is indeed connected to Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). As World Mercury Project reports, two recent studies have highlighted the potential role mercury exposure plays in the onset of ASD.
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8410aut.php
International scientists have found autism's cause. What will Americans do?
August 23, 2018
Five clear, replicable, and related discoveries explaining how autism is triggered have formed an undeniably clear picture of autism’s causation, and possibly ways to alleviate the symptoms, too. Most of the research that has created this understanding has been published in the last 36 months, and largely from international scientists in the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Israel, and China. The American media, public health authorities, and Autism Speaks? Silent.
STAFFORDSHIRE, England —In early December 2017, Dr. Chris Exley of Keele University in England and his colleagues published a paper that for the first time looked at the brain tissue of subjects with autism to determine the level of aluminum (note: they spell “aluminum” as “aluminium” in the United Kingdom) found within their brain tissue.
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8448sciaut.php
1 in 36: ASD Rate Set a New Record High in 2016
By Mark Blaxill, December 01, 2017
The National Health Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) released its latest prevalence rate for autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) in American children this Wednesday. Their “data brief”, which is based on information gathered in the National Health Information Survey (NHIS), reported an ASD rate for 2016 of 2.76%, or 1 in 36 American children (1).
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8548aut.php
Solid Research on Autism in Dogs Lacking
June 11, 2018 by Marco Cáceres
On Apr. 23, 2018, the British television show Good Morning Britain tweeted the following message on Twitter: “We’re looking to speak to pet owners who haven’t given their pets vaccinations because they’re concerned about side effects—as well as people who have done so and now believe their pet has canine autism as a result.”
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8552aut.php
Immune system and gastrointestinal deregulation linked with autism
UC Davis Health April 17, 2018
(SACRAMENTO, Calif.) —
Researchers at the UC Davis MIND Institute have found that children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) have reduced immune system regulation, as well as shifts in their gut microbiota. The immune deregulation appears to facilitate increased inflammation and may be linked to the gastrointestinal issues so often experienced by children with ASD. The research was published in the journal Brain, Behavior, and Immunity.
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8592sciaut.php
Stunning finding reveals autism is highest in areas with the highest vaccination rates
April 30, 2018 by: Vicki Batts
(Natural News) The surge of autism diagnoses in recent years has left many people looking for an explanation. Oft-labeled a “conspiracy theory,” or something to that effect, the suspicion that vaccines are a potential cause of autism is on the rise. New research from the Canadian government has indirectly shown that in highly vaccinated populations, autism rates are noticeably higher. These shocking findings are sure to leave vaccine propagandists reeling while they try to somehow discredit the findings of a government agency.
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8610aut.php
Treating autism by targeting the gut
June 19,2017
Experts have called for large-scale studies into altering the make-up of bacteria in the gut, after a review showed that this might reduce the symptoms of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD).
Read rest of original story here:
File# 8692aut.php
Aluminium in brain tissue in autism
Journal of Trace Elements in Medicine and Biology
Available online 26 November 2017
Abstract
...
Human exposure to the environmental toxin aluminium has been linked, if tentatively, to autism spectrum disorder.
...
Aluminium-selective fluorescence microscopy was used to identify aluminium in brain tissue in 10 donors. While aluminium was imaged associated with neurones it appeared to be present intracellularly in microglia-like cells and other inflammatory non-neuronal cells in the meninges, vasculature, grey and white matter. The pre-eminence of intracellular aluminium associated with non-neuronal cells was a standout observation in autism brain tissue and may offer clues as to both the origin of the brain aluminium as well as a putative role in autism spectrum disorder.
Read original article here. Note PDF to to Accepted Manuscript.
File# 8724aut.php
"You Can Never Really Say MMR Doesn't Cause Autism," Dr. Paul Offit
May 26, 2017
Thanks to AofA's Nancy Hokkanen for this summation:
"You can never really say 'MMR doesn’t cause autism,' but frankly when you get in front of the media, you better get used to saying it. Because otherwise people hear a door being left open, when a door shouldn't be left open."
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2017/05/you-can-never-really-say-mmr-doesnt-cause-autism-dr-paul-offit.html
File# 8854aut.php
New Kid On The Block: IL-17a
May 14, 2016
An important new paper (January 2016) by Choi et al. in the well-known journal Science provides valuable new information about how IL-6 causes autism. This paper reports that IL-6 causes autism by inducing production of the cytokine IL-17a.
Paper (Choi):The maternal interleukin-17a pathway in mice promotes autismlike phenotypes in offspring
In biochemistry and biology, there are “signalling pathways” that have multiple steps connected in a chain. There can be many steps in a signaling pathway. Cytokines often act this way. So, when we say that “IL-6 causes autism”, it could mean that IL-6 acts directly, or that the IL-6 triggers something else that causes autism.
The new discovery is that IL-17a acts downstream of IL-6 to cause autism. In other words, IL-17a production is an intermediate step between IL-6 production and autism. So, Choi et al provides both a confirmation and extension of IL-6-autism causality. No wonder this paper was published in one of the most important scientific journals in the world.
Read rest of story here: http://vaccinepapers.org/new-kid-block-il-17a/
File# 8936autsci.php
Dead Doctor’s Research Expanded: Natural Cures Seen for Autism and Cancer
February 28, 2017 by John P. Thomas - Health Impact News
Research on Treating Autism and Cancer with the Ketogenic Diet Bravo and Rerum
When Dr. Jeff Bradstreet unexpectedly and tragically died in the spring of 2015, many of us wondered what would happen to the research he was doing with GcMAF, Goleic, and Bravo yogurt, which he was using to help children with autism. To my great pleasure, I am pleased to report that the research has continued and treatment options have been expanded. We are now seeing even more powerful results for the treatment of autism, cancer, chronic Lyme, chronic fatigue syndrome, and various neurodegenerative diseases.
Read rest of story here: http://vaccineimpact.com/2017/dead-doctors-research-expanded-natural-cures-seen-for-autism-and-cancer/
File# 8946aut.php
30 solid scientific studies that prove vaccines are linked with autism
Tuesday, September 27, 2016 by: Natural News Editors
(NaturalNews) These thirty scientific studies show a link between vaccines and autism, disproving the myth that no official research papers exist to support what alternative doctors have been saying for years.
We have compiled a list of 30 scientific studies that show a link between vaccines and autism, disproving the myth[1] that no official research papers exist to support what alternative doctors have been saying for years.
These papers can be shown to medical doctors and public health officials who wish to see peer reviewed scientific studies to back up the claims that autism is a direct result from receiving a vaccination[2].
Read rest of story here: http://www.naturalnews.com/055446_vaccines_austim_scientific_studies.html
File# 9050autsci.php
Did the CDC Censor Vaxxed? Or Did the CDC’s Proxies Do It for them? Columbia University’s Dilemma
Posted by: John Stone | May 26, 2016
Many readers may not know Columbia University’s President, Lee C. Bollinger. However, if one explores the issues around censorship as Wayne Rohde and I have over the past several weeks, Bollinger’s name quickly emerges.
Bollinger, a First Amendment scholar, is a brilliant man and a champion of free speech. Please take a look at his biography on the Columbia University website As the biography notes, “his most recent book, Uninhibited, Robust, and Wide-Open: A Free Press for a New Century (Inalienable Rights), has placed Bollinger at the center of public discussion about the importance of global free speech to continued social progress.”
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2016/05/did-the-cdc-censor-vaxxed-or-did-the-cdcs-proxies-do-it-for-them-columbia-universitys-dilemma.html
CDC sponsored MMR study supports Wakefield’s findings
9/12/2008 Re-published June 1, 2016 - F. Edward Yazbak MD
On May 26, 2016, Rhode and Conte published their 4th report on the movie “VAXXED”.
The report was titled “Did the CDC Censor Vaxxed? Or Did the CDC’s Proxies Do It for them? Columbia University’s Dilemma.” http://www.ageofautism.com/2016/05/did-the-cdc-censor-vaxxed-or-did-the-cdcs-proxies-do-it-for-them-columbia-universitys-dilemma.html
The report and related comments were most informative and readers should review them in order to appreciate the role Professor Ian Lipkin of Columbia University played recently.
Read rest of story here: http://www.vaccinationnews.org/content/cdc-sponsored-mmr-study-supports-wakefields-findings-YazbakFE-6/1/16
CDC forced to reveal documents proving Thimerosal vaccine preservative causes autism
May 26, 2016
(NaturalNews) Factually speaking, the CDC is a malicious, criminally-run anti-science quackery front group for the vaccine industry. As part of its criminal activity, it has long insisted that the vaccine preservative thimerosal is not tied to autism. But once-secret documents, now forced to be revealed by the CDC, prove the agency knew that thimerosal causes autism but deliberately hid that evidence from the public in exactly the same way the EPA hid the truth about lead poisoning of the public water supply in Flint, Michigan.
"A vaccine industry watchdog has now obtained CDC documents that show statistically significant risks of autism associated with the vaccine preservative," reports Health Advice, which also reports:
Read rest of story here: http://www.naturalnews.com/054155_thimerosal_autism_CDC_documents.html
Does the MMR Vaccine Cause Autism?
May 11, 2016
Does the MMR vaccine cause autism? This is the essential question that each parent should ponder prior to injecting their child with the MMR vaccination.
The answer is largely divided between conventional medicine and the holistic community. Evidence supporting the claim that the MMR vaccine causes autism includes parental reports, court case verdicts, multiple research studies and animal research. Deniers of the connection refer to vaccine studies which are considered flawed or biased by those in the holistic health community. [1, 2]
Read rest of story here: https://vactruth.com/2016/05/11/mmr-vaccine-autism/
Circumcision and Autism: A Recent Danish Study
May 5, 2016 by F. Edward Yazbak M.D.
For a period of time, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) had a love-fest with Danish Researchers who agreed to produce needed evidence that in spite of parental reports, MMR vaccination and Thimerosal containing vaccines played no role whatsoever in the increased prevalence in autism and autistic spectral disorders (ASD).
...
“Ritual circumcision and risk of autism spectrum disorder in 0- to 9-year-old boys: national cohort study in Denmark” by Morten Frisch and Jacob Simonsen was published in the prestigious Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4530408/
Read rest of story here: http://www.vaccinationnews.org/Circumcision-and-Autism-A-Recent-Danish-Study-YazbakFE-5-5-16
Do Vaccines Cause Cancer?
April 10, 2016 by Louise Kuo Habakus
I know people will be immediately furious with the title — do vaccines cause cancer? Absolutely irresponsible! What’s wrong with you? This is why your movement will never get anywhere! You think everything bad is caused by vaccines!
Be mad, if you must, but keep reading. Progress never happens by silencing contrarian voices. This post is for parents. Because the hardest time to learn about cancer is when someone you love has been diagnosed. It’s difficult to come from a place of empowered strength when panic and fear set in. The second hardest time to learn about cancer is when no one is sick. Why spend precious free time on something so terrifying? I’ll tell you why. Cancer is part of our new normal. One in two men and one in three women will receive a cancer diagnosis in their lifetime. But it’s not just adults. If you can’t bring yourself to focus on this topic for yourself, please do it for your children.
Read rest of story here: http://fearlessparent.org/do-vaccines-cause-cancer/
Utah Whistleblower Lawsuit Alleges Data Errors, Research Misconduct as CDC Report Releases U.S. Autism Rate of 1.5%
Mar 31, 2016
The CDC announced today an autism rate of 1 in 68 children (1.5% of eight year olds surveyed in 2012) for those born in 2004, unchanged from the last reported rate for children born in 2002. Meanwhile, the United States District Court for the District of Utah is preparing to hear critical motions on April 4th from a former CDC researcher and whistleblower. Although the lawsuit is directed primarily to the University of Utah, the whistleblower has also alleged that the CDC’s Autism and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring (ADDM) Network, allowed research misconduct and persistent data errors in their autism prevalence reports. These whistleblower allegations reveal serious concerns over the legitimacy and integrity of the CDC’s management of its widely cited ADDM Network reports.
Read rest of story here: http://truthinmedia.com/utah-whistleblower-lawsuit-alleges-data-errors-research-misconduct-as-cdc-report-releases-us-autism-rate/
Leadership & Longevity - Dr. Andrew Wakefield: CDC Whistleblower, Autism & Mandatory Vaccination
Published on Dec 2, 2015
YouTube Video
Watch Dr. Andrew Wakefield discuss the widely controversial topic of vaccine health in his 'CDC Whistleblower' presentation at the Leadershp & Longevity 2015 Conference.
Read rest of story here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I8EtfkAngKw
THE AUTISM EPIDEMIC - Who should you believe?
3/18/16 by F Edward Yazbak MD
During the last year, agenda-driven politicians introduced laws, rules and regulations that went against the wishes of parents in many states. Suddenly, parents who had always been free to make decisions concerning their infants and young children’s faith, health, diet, activities and everything else, lost their right to be concerned and selective when it came to the many mandated and ever-increasing pediatric vaccinations.
Read rest of story here: http://www.vaccinationnews.org/content/Autism-Epidemic-who-should-you-believe-YazbakFE
The CDC Atlanta Autism Study That No One Noticed
March 04, 2016 By F. Edward Yazbak MD
Amid all the furor surrounding Thompson no one noticed the publication by the CDC last year of a study showing the steady rise of autism spectrum disorders in Atlanta which once again places beyond reasonable doubt that the rise in autism is real and not an artifact. On the CDC’s own analysis autism had risen on its own door step by nearly four times among eight year olds between 1996 and 2010 to a rate of 1 in 65. Ed Yazbak reviews the paper.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2016/03/the-cdc-atlanta-autism-study-that-no-one-noticed.html
Have Science and Monetary Influences Gone Amok?
January 29, 2016 By Catherine J. Frompovich
Recently, Mike Adams, the Health Ranger and editor at Natural News, ran an article about science genetically engineering laboratory monkeys to present autism symptomology to be utilized for autism and brain research, which beggars the question: If they can cause it in monkeys, what do they really know about ASD and, consequently, utilize to be able to produce it? Why not think “reverse engineering” [1].
Read rest of story here: http://www.activistpost.com/2016/01/have-science-and-monetary-influences-gone-amok.html
Truth in Media: CDC, Vaccines and Autism
Ben Swann, Jan 26, 2016
[Video and News]
The debate over whether vaccines cause autism has become one of the most controversial disputes in this country. In this episode of Truth In Media, the focus is not on whether vaccines are responsible for autism. The issue at hand here is a study that was performed at the CDC and the question of whether the agency was complicit in a cover-up over a decade ago.
For over two years, Truth In Media has explored the allegations of Dr. William Thompson, a CDC scientist who came forward in 2014, hired a whistleblower attorney, and claimed that important data regarding a study on vaccines and autism was eliminated.
[Note: links are available at this page [link below] to download the CDC documents in two parts.]
Read rest of story here: http://truthinmedia.com/cdc-vaccines-autism-coverup/
More:
For a collection of news links about Dr. William Thompson and the CDC coverup
CDCwhistleblower.htm
Payback is a Bitch...
Mainstream Media Outlet Attacks the Wrong Guy... Fun in Sacramento...
Tim Bolen, January 12th, 2016
There is a hilarious short video I want you to watch. It will make your day. It was taken by Sacramento, California area Joshua Coleman, father of a severely vaccine damaged child, who has MORE THAN ONE personal interest in the subject material the video covers. The video is about Josh's encounter(s) with the local Sacramento CBS affiliate. Understand that Josh's child is severely handicapped from vaccines, as millions of children are, and his situation is exactly what Handicapped Parking facilities were designed for.
Read/watch rest of story here: http://www.bolenreport.com/autism/antivaccine%20yes20.htm
Research on Autism Still Missing the Forest For The Trees
January 5, 2016
Autism Speaks recently posted an article titled "Evidence that brain-chemical imbalance drives autism symptoms" which discusses a new study published in the journal Current Biology: "Reduced GABAergic Action in the Autistic Brain". This is an important study as it is the first to demonstrate a link between severity of autistic symptoms and reduced action of the neurotransmitter GABA in humans. GABA is the primary inhibitory neurotransmitter and several studies have found strong evidence of its association with autism, one finding reduced GABA receptor subunits in post-mortem tissue of autistic brains, and another finding disrupted GABAergic signaling in mouse models of autism (references)
...
If we were talking about any disorder other than autism, the next logical question the researchers -- and advocacy groups like Autism Speaks -- would be asking would be: “What could possibly cause this reduced GABA activity in the autistic brain”? If a researcher can suggest biologically plausible cause(s) that only servers to bolster their findings, and researchers do love to bolster their findings.
..
Earth to Autism Speaks...mercury targets GABA receptors in the brain.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2016/01/research-on-autism-still-missing-the-forest-for-the-trees.html
Pediatrician Resigns Because ‘American Association of Pediatrics Knows Vaccines Cause Autism’
December 15, 2015
Dr. Kenneth P Stoller, MD, is a former Pediatrician at UCLA who resigned because he says that the American Academy of Pediatrics KNOWS Vaccines cause autism and tried to hide it.
Read rest of story here: http://vaxxter.com/index.php/2015/12/15/pediatrician-slams-vaccines-cause-autism/
Scientist and Stem Cell Expert Says Don’t Be So Quick to Believe Vaccines Are Safe
July 24, 2015
Dr. Theresa Deisher believes those made from fetal stem cell lines may pose a serious risk
Dr. Theresa Deisher is no stranger to science, research, and ethics. She holds a PhD in Molecular and Cellular Physiology from Stanford University and has spent over 20 years in commercial biotechnology before founding Sound Choice Pharmaceutical Institute (SCPI), which promotes consumer awareness about the widespread use of electively aborted fetal material in drug discovery, development, and commercialization.
Read rest of story here: http://aleteia.org/2015/07/24/scientist-and-stem-cell-expert-says-dont-be-so-quick-to-believe-vaccines-are-safe/
'Miracle drug' called junk science
May 21, 2009
Desperate to help their autistic children, hundreds of parents nationwide are turning to an unproven and potentially damaging treatment: multiple high doses of a drug sometimes used to chemically castrate sex offenders.
Read rest of story here: http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2009-05-21/news/chi-autism-lupron-may21_1_autism-one-conference-autistic-children-lupron-protocol
The Color by Numbers Epidemic: Formerly Low Autism Rates among Ethnic Groups Skyrocketing After Massive, Coercive Campaign to Vaccinate “Underserved” Minorities
June 30, 2014
A recent study in Pediatrics reports that autism rates now appear to be higher among the children of American born Hispanic and African American mothers and among children of mothers within certain immigrant groups:
...
The researchers found an increased risks of being diagnosed with autism overall and specifically with coexisting mental retardation in children of foreign-born mothers who were black, Central/South American, Filipino, and Vietnamese, as well as among United States-born Hispanic and African American/black mothers, compared with US-born Caucasians. Compared to children of US-born Caucasians, children of US African American/black and foreign-born black, foreign-born Central/South American, and US-born Hispanic mothers were at higher risk of autism, characterized by both severe emotional outbursts and impaired language skills.
This report is a dramatic turnaround from only a few years ago, when the CDC reported an entirely different pattern among ethnic groups in the US:
Non-Hispanic white children were approximately 30% more likely to be identified with ASD than non-Hispanic black children and were almost 50% more likely to be identified with ASD than Hispanic children.
...
What’s also bitterly fascinating—and not mentioned in media coverage of the recent study on high rates of autism among ethnic groups— is that there had also been a radical shift in ethnic and economic demographics regarding vaccine uptake. At one time, for instance, African Americans were the least compliant and most “under-vaccinated”:
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2014/06/the-color-by-numbers-epidemic-formerly-low-autism-rates-among-ethnic-groups-skyrocketing-after-massive-coercive-campaign-to.html#comment-captcha
Still Covering Up: the New Autism Speaks/JAMA Study of the Cost of Autism
June 12, 2014 By John Stone
"The present study seems to do two things: regard notional cases based on a half-baked theory of general prevalence as actual, but also underestimating costs of individual real cases by more that three times (on a breakdown of their own figures)."
...
The other matter I cannot reconcile is the lifetime costs. The paper determines that the lifetime cost in the UK of a person with autism and ID is £1.5 million ($2.2m). Even in 2001 Järbrink and Knapp stated: “The lifetime cost for a person with autism exceeded £2.4 million” ($3.8m). But the new paper also gives a yearly cost for an autistic adult with ID in the UK as £86,981 (table 2) and £86,099 ($126,430 - table 4) and £1.5m only amounts to about 17 years’ worth. Using the figures provided for childhood costs in Table 2 and a projected average lifetime of 67 years we get a grand total of £4,864,911 (about $7.8m): more like it, perhaps, but still I fear rather optimistic. This is our new autistic workforce. We ain’t heard nothing yet: the real financial tsunami is on its way.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2014/06/still-covering-up-the-new-autism-speaksjama-study-of-the-cost-of-autism.html
[Comment/Rapid Response] Which MMR?
in reply to MMR vaccine is not linked with autism, says Danish study
May 2014
The debate about MMR-autism rages on and the Danish study is but another weak link in the chain promoted by those who, it appears, would vaccinate and be damned. Neville Goodman quotes a site that I suspect he opines will bring disrepute on anti-vaccine authors – perhaps he and Tony Floyd could look at the “critical analysis “ of the Danish Study by Ulf Branell (1) and comment. They might throw light on the validity of Branell’s statistical appraisal of the Danish study.
The Danish study does nothing to alter my view that MMR is probably a cause of autism, but the authors have perhaps unwittingly identified an important avenue of investigation (assuming their values are sound) that may lead us to the proof that MMR causes autism. ...
Read rest of story here: http://www.bmj.com/rapid-response/2011/10/29/which-mmr
Reaching My Autistic Son Through Disney
MARCH 7, 2014
...
He does it again. Stop. Rewind. Play. And one more time. On the fourth pass, Cornelia whispers, “It’s not ‘juice.’ ” I barely hear her. “What?” “It’s not ‘juice.’ It’s ‘just’ . . . ‘just your voice’!”
I grab Owen by the shoulders. “Just your voice! Is that what you’re saying?!”
He looks right at me, our first real eye contact in a year. “Juicervose! Juicervose! Juicervose!”
Walt starts to shout, “Owen’s talking again!” A mermaid lost her voice in a moment of transformation. So did this silent boy. “Juicervose! Juicervose! Juicervose!” Owen keeps saying it, watching us shout and cheer. And then we’re up, all of us, bouncing on the bed. Owen, too, singing it over and over — “Juicervose!” — as Cornelia, tears beginning to fall, whispers softly, “Thank God, he’s in there.”
Read rest of story here: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/09/magazine/reaching-my-autistic-son-through-disney.html?_r=2
My take on Autism Awareness Day
by David Foster
I coached Special Olympics for over 20 years, and I have been a vaccine safety advocate for about 20 years, so I may have a different take on Autism Awareness Day than most.
Through Special Olympics I was exposed to many children with autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders, although those involved with an organized activity like SO would necessarily be relatively high functioning. My point is that there are many many autistic individuals, who are very low functioning, that you will never see, some cannot take care of themselves in any way, some wander constantly and many cases of wandering end up in their death. Autism impacts families in profound and sometimes very damaging and dangerous ways.
So please, media and pundits, stop referring to autism as a "gift".
I fully support the intent of Autism Awareness Day to foster both awareness of and tolerance for those with autism. We need to work on both social programs as well as treatment regimens to deal with the exponentially growing number of autistic people in our midst.
But what we ALSO need to do is stop creating new autistic children.
Read rest of story here: http://vaccinationnews.org/content/my-take-autism-awareness-day
Vaccine Industry Watchdog Obtains CDC Documents That Show Statistically Significant Risks of Autism Associated with Vaccine Preservative Thimerosal
(PRWEB) February 19, 2014
For nearly ten years, Brian Hooker has been requesting documents that are kept under tight wraps by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). His more than 100 Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests have resulted in copious evidence that the vaccine preservative Thimerosal, which is still used in the flu shot that is administered to pregnant women and infants, can cause autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders.
Read rest of story here: http://www.prweb.com/releases/ASOT/Thimerosal/prweb11598819.htm
More
Posted on February 23, 2014 by ChildHealthSafety
This Study Reveals Children are Being Vaccinated With Toxic Levels of Aluminium Causing Neurological Damage and Autism
A recent study conducted by Canadian scientists Professor Christopher Shaw and Dr. Lucija Tomljenovic revealed that the more vaccines that children receive containing the adjuvant aluminum, the greater their chance is of developing autism, autoimmune diseases and neurological problems in the future.
Read rest of story here: http://vactruth.com/2014/01/28/toxic-levels-of-aluminum/?utm_source=The+Vaccine+Truth+Newsletter&utm_campaign=d57191d115-01_28_2014_aluminum&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_ce7860ee83-d57191d115-408310285
Administration of aluminium to neonatal mice in vaccine-relevant amounts is associated with adverse long term neurological outcomes.
Epub 2013 Jul 19.
Our previous ecological studies of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has demonstrated a correlation between increasing ASD rates and aluminium (Al) adjuvants in common use in paediatric vaccines in several Western countries. The correlation between ASD rate and Al adjuvant amounts appears to be dose-dependent and satisfies 8 of 9 Hill criteria for causality.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23932735#
B-lymphocytes from a population of children with autism spectrum disorder and their unaffected siblings exhibit hypersensitivity to thimerosal.
Epub 2013 Jun 9.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23843785
Autism, Vaccination and Immigrants - Yet Another Clear Correlation by F. Edward Yazbak, MD, FAAP
Autism and Autistic Spectrum Disorders (ASD) seem more common among young Somalis in Minnesota and among immigrant communities in several western countries. At least as late as 2003, Ethiopian-born immigrants to Israel had no recorded cases of autism. [That is correct: Not a single one!]
Read rest of story here: http://www.vaccinationnews.com/20110121AutismVaccinationImmigrantsYazbakFE
An Autism-Gene in a Dish v In Vivo Veritas
10-15-2013 by F. Edward Yazbak MD
Many thousands of American children have developed autism.
The Institute of Medicine’s Immunization Safety Review Committee held its ninth and probably its most important meeting on vaccination and autism on February 9, 2004. The purpose of the meeting was to review all “pro and con research” on the subject.
Relying in part on findings reported in certain Danish studies[1], the committee concluded in its May 14, 2004 report [2] that the “body of epidemiological evidence” favored rejection of a causal relationship between vaccination and autism. It also recommended “that available funding for autism research be channeled to the most promising areas.”
Since then, enormous amounts of money have been poured into “genetic” research.
Read rest of story here: http://www.vaccinationnews.com/2013-10-15-Autism-Gene-in-a-Dish-v-In-Vivo-Veritas-YazbakFE
Let there be sunlight! Is sunscreen implicated in the development and rise in the incidence of autism?
Date: 10-3-2013 by Sandy Gottstein
In the past year some interesting information has “come across my desk”, which suggest to me a very interesting possibility. These findings are as follows:
1. Vitamin D deficiencies have been found to be related to auto-immune disorders, autism, and cancer and cardiovascular disease.
2. The recommended dose for vitamin D is thought by some to be way too low.
3. Fish at lower depths in the ocean accumulate higher levels of mercury.
Read rest of story here: http://www.vaccinationnews.com/2013-10-03-Let-there-be-sunlight-GottsteinS
Nearly two dozen medical studies prove that vaccines can cause autism
October 01, 2013
(NaturalNews) Mainstream doctors and media pundits are notorious for claiming that the vaccine-autism debate is over and that no legitimate scientific evidence exists to suggest even a possible link between vaccinations and autism spectrum disorders (ASD): case closed. But a thoroughly-researched report recently published by Arjun Walia over at Activist Post reveals that there are at least 22 published scientific studies that show a link between vaccines and autism and that there are many more out there with similar findings.
Much of the original controversy stems from Dr. Andrew Wakefield's study back in the late 1990s, which exposed gastrointestinal inflammation as an obvious side effect of vaccination with the combination measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine. Dr. Wakefield obviously struck a major nerve with his research, which was quickly torn apart by the establishment and maliciously paraded around as being fraudulent, even though his groundbreaking findings have repeatedly been validated and replicated by many other studies.
Read rest of story here: http://www.naturalnews.com/042293_vaccines_autism_medical_studies.html
Let there be sunlight! Is sunscreen implicated in the development and rise in the incidence of autism?
by Sandy Gottstein 10-3-2013
In the past year some interesting information has “come across my desk”, which suggest to me a very interesting possibility. These findings are as follows:
Vitamin D deficiencies have been found to be related to auto-immune disorders, autism, and cancer and cardiovascular disease.
The recommended dose for vitamin D is thought by some to be way too low.
Fish at lower depths in the ocean accumulate higher levels of mercury.
Read rest of story here: http://www.vaccinationnews.com/2013-10-03-Let-there-be-sunlight-GottsteinS
The Canary Party's New Viral Video: Do Vaccines Cause Autism?
08 September 2013
For many years now, families of vaccine injured children have had difficult time trying to explain to the uninitiated why the vaccine program is so problematic. Vaccine interests constantly push the sound bite, "vaccines are safe, vaccines save lives," but the harsh reality of the damage being done is a much more complicated story.
The Canary Party has produced a five minute video to explain the heart of the vaccine problem in this country. Because liability protection has been removed from all involved in making and administering vaccines, the program has become corrupted, begun harming untold numbers of children, and abandoning the injured.
SNL Alumni Rob Schneider graciously voiced the important video, which makes the case that the vaccine program is broken, and informs viewers of the upcoming Congressional hearings examining the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program in the House Committee on Oversight & Government Reform.
Read rest of story here: http://canaryparty.net/index.php/the-news/129-the-canary-partys-new-viral-video-do-vaccines-cause-autism
Agent Orange, Corporatism, Government, Coleen Boyle…. and Autism?
September 24, 2013
Autism prevalence is 1 in 50 in the U.S. How is the Agent Orange health compensation fiasco for Veterans the same as Vaccine Safety and Autism? Thousands of Viet Nam Veterans exposed to the chemical Agent Orange were denied compensation, there was an obstruction of justice, and it took a directive from Congress to fix it over the course of 30 years.
Congress issued a directive for federal agency vaccine safety studies including baseline studies to show exposure and health outcomes (VICA Section 27). In a rising autism epidemic, unfettered science and detailed analysis hold promise for answers, but data is far from available and the process for collection and access to de-identified data remains stymied.
And according to information obtained through the Freedom of Information Act, obstructions of justice that may have denied thousands of vaccine injured children with Autism compensation in the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program appears to have been revealed through malfeasance in CDC science studies, possible destruction of early 1990’s government studies showing mercury issues, alleged removal of unvaccinated children from the data sources making it harder to perform vaccinated v unvaccinated studies, and barred transparency to the Vaccine Safety Datalink for independent research.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2013/09/agent-orange-corporatism-government-coleen-boyle-and-autism.html
New Research Finds Annual Cost of Autism Has More Than Tripled to $126 Billion in the U.S. and Reached £34 Billion in the U.K.
New York, N.Y. (March 28, 2012)
Lifetime Care of Individuals with Autism Highest for Those with Intellectual Disability $2.3 Million U.S. and £1.5 Million U.K. New York, N.Y. (March 28, 2012) – Autism Speaks, the world’s leading autism science and advocacy organization, today announced preliminary results of new research that estimates autism costs society a staggering $126 billion per year (U.S.) – a number that has more than tripled since 2006, and annually in the U.K. has reached more than £34 billion (equivalent to $54 billion U.S.). The costs of providing care for each person with autism affected by intellectual disability through his or her lifespan are $2.3 million in the U.S. and £1.5 million ($2.4 million) in the U.K. The lifetime costs of caring for individuals who are not impacted by intellectual disability are $1.4 million in the U.S. and £917,000 in the U.K. (equivalent to $1.46 million). The Autism Speaks-funded research, conducted by researchers Martin Knapp, Ph.D., of the London School of Economics, and David Mandell, Sc.D., of the University of Pennsylvania, will be presented at the international conference “Investing in our Future: The Economic Costs of Autism,” hosted by Goldman Sachs in collaboration with the Child Development Centre and Autism Speaks, on March 31 in Hong Kong.
Read rest of story here: http://www.autismspeaks.org/about-us/press-releases/annual-cost-of-autism-triples
Autism linked to deficiency in healthy gut bacteria: Research
(NaturalNews) Parents and caregivers of autistic children have been saying it for decades, and now the scientific community is finally catching up with reality: gastrointestinal abnormalities are a common marker associated with the diagnosis of an autism spectrum disorder (ASD). And a new study recently published online in the journal, PLoS One, has specifically identified imbalanced and deficient gut flora as a major symptom, and potentially even a primary cause, of autism in many of the children diagnosed with the condition.
Read rest of story here: http://www.naturalnews.com/041751_autism_gut_bacteria_vaccines.html
Vaccine Court Awards Millions to Two Children With Autism
01/14/2013 9:43 am
The federal Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, better known as "vaccine court," has just awarded millions of dollars to two children with autism for "pain and suffering" and lifelong care of their injuries, which together could cost tens of millions of dollars.
The government did not admit that vaccines caused autism, at least in one of the children. Both cases were "unpublished," meaning information is limited, and access to medical records and other exhibits is blocked. Much of the information presented here comes from documents found at the vaccine court website.
Read rest of story here: http://www.huffingtonpost.com/david-kirby/post2468343_b_2468343.html
Vaccination Causes Autism – Say US Government & Merck’s Director of Vaccines [2010]
http://childhealthsafety.wordpress.com/2010/06/30/vaccination-causes-autism-%E2%80%93-say-us-government-merck%E2%80%99s-director-of%C2%A0vaccines/
See Full US Congress Hearings On The Autism Pandemic – Web Links Here – Video & Transcripts
http://childhealthsafety.wordpress.com/author/childhealthsafety/
Short Link http://wp.me/pfSi7-1Fe
Vaccine bombshell: Baby monkeys develop autism symptoms after obtaining doses of popular vaccines
http://www.infowars.com/vaccine-bombshell-baby-monkeys-develop-autism-symptoms-after-obtaining-doses-of-popular-vaccines/
Monkeys Get Autism-like Reactions to MMR & Other Vaccines In University of Pittsburgh Vaccine Study
http://vactruth.com/2012/04/29/monkeys-get-autism/
Infant Vaccines Produce Autism Symptoms In Primates
http://www.vaccineriskawareness.com/Infant-Vaccines-Produce-Autism-Symptoms-In-Primates
The Autism Team Reality TV Program and Reality for Autism
http://www.ageofautism.com/2012/11/like-most-autism-parents-i-have-vivid-memories-of-when-my-husband-and-i-were-informed-about-our-sons-autism-the-first.html
Congress slams NIH, CDC reps for evading vaccine/autism evidence
http://canaryparty.net/index.php/the-news/123-congress-slams-nih-cdc-reps-for-evading-vaccineautism
From the Editor: Amish Update
Posted by Age of Autism May 09, 2012
...
Folks, the Amish communities are being pressed to get vaccinated. As they assimilate to "English" ways--more out of financial need than anything else--that include schooling and use of English doctors, it won't be long before the Amish, too, will be reporting more and more autism. I'm so concerned about this I'm thinking of asking my new employer if there isn't some way I could do an investigative story with these folks before it's too late. And I promise you, having lived in this area nearly 20 years now, it is soon going to be too late.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2012/05/from-the-editor.html
In Vaccines We Trust? Paul Offit threatens religious and philosophical vaccine exemptions. A response by Suzanne Humphries, MD
August 26, 2012
Millionaire vaccine inventor and mandatory vaccine advocate Paul Offit recently released a short VIDEO for doctors on medscape. Here is a transcript of the speech. This statement that outlines Offit’s personal belief system could be a prelude to the legal removal of all philosophical and religious vaccine exemptions in the United States of America. This is something that Offit has been working toward for years, and the likely end-purpose of his series of books. Paul Offit believes that exempting your child from vaccination is morally reprehensible. He considers himself an authority on autism, all infectious diseases, morality, history, every religious system, and infant immunology. You may also recognize Dr Offit as the one who says that all vaccines are perfectly safe and infants can tolerate theoretically 10,000 of them at once:
“A more practical way to determine the diversity of the immune response would be to estimate the number of vaccines to which a child could respond at one time…. each infant would have the theoretical capacity to respond to about 10, 000 vaccines at any one time.” [1]
The status accorded to him by the pharmaceutical and medical fields permits him to influence the opinions and practice of lower rung physicians regarding vaccine exemptions. Unfortunately, even doctors will simply believe the “expert”[2] without bothering to go and check their own medical literature, to see if the self-proclaimed expertise has a solid scientific foundation. Research shows that when people listen to the expert, the part of their brains that is capable of independent thought goes to sleep.[3]
Read rest of story here: http://drsuzanne.net/2012/08/in-vaccines-we-trust-paul-offit-threatens-religious-and-philosophical-vaccine-exemptions-a-response-by-suzanne-humphries-md/
Paternal Age Study Implicates Environment Not Genes
By Bob Krakow August 25, 2012
The headline generating paper published this week in a leading scientific journal, Kong, Augustine et al. 2013. “Rate of de novo mutations and the importance of father’s age to disease risk.” Nature 488(7412):471–475, has been promoted relentlessly in the mainstream media being featured, among other prominent venues, as the lead front page story in the New York Times. The Nature scientific paper purports to show data supporting a link between children born to older fathers and disease, specifically autism and schizophrenia.
The paper is based on the evaluation of the genetic makeup of 219 individuals, claiming significance for the finding that older fathers possessing a higher number of de novo genetic mutations than younger fathers produce more offspring with autism and schizophrenia. The purported association between older fathers and children with autism is being touted as a breakthrough finding that helps to explain the rise in the incidence of autism over the last two decades. The finding is claimed to support a genetic etiology for autism.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2012/08/paternal-age-study-implicates-environment-not-genes-1.html
Half-Siblings of Those With Autism at Raised Risk for Disorder: Study
Research also suggests that fathers, mothers equally likely to transmit higher risk
Friday, April 20, 2012
FRIDAY, April 20 (HealthDay News) -- Half-siblings of children with autism are at increased risk for the disorder, according to a recent study that provides new genetic clues about autism.
Previous research has shown that full siblings of children with autism are also at higher risk for the developmental disability. The new finding may not be surprising -- given that half-siblings share about 25 percent of their genes -- but provides new clues to how autism is inherited.
The study included more than 5,000 U.S. families enrolled in a nationwide autism registry in which there was a child with autism and at least one other sibling. Included were 619 families with at least one maternal half-sibling, meaning the children shared the same mother but not the same father. The researchers compared autism recurrence among the half-siblings to the rate among the full siblings.
...
The findings also suggest that in many families, the transmission of autism from parents to children is the result of the effects of many genes, with each contributing a small proportion of the risk, he said.
The study was published online April 16 in the journal Molecular Psychiatry.
Read rest of story here: http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/news/fullstory_124335.html
Dr. Andrew Wakefield Exclusive on American Investigator: Autism Numbers Likely far Higher than One in 88
April 17, 2012
Speaking in an exclusive interview with Richard Moore on the American Investigator and for The Lakeland Times, internationally renowned and controversial autism researcher Dr. Andrew Wakefield says recently announced numbers on the prevalence of autism – which showed a two-year spike from one in 110 children diagnosed with ASD to one in 88 – are likely understated and by a dramatic order.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2012/04/dr-andrew-wakefield......
Baby receives cocktail of seven vaccines, loses ability to speak, recovers with homeopathic shock remedies
April 3rd, 2012
(HealthyTimesNewspaper) – Baby Irene’s dad agreed with his homeopathic physician, Hannah Eagle, about the dangers of vaccines. He certainly did not plan on vaccinating his 4-month old daughter. On December 4, 2011, however, under a tremendous amount of pressure from the family pediatrician, he and his wife acquiesced and allowed a single injection cocktail of seven vaccines, as follows: DPaT (3 vaccines: diphtheria, pertussis, tetnus), HIB, Pneumococcal, Polio, and Influenza.
Baby Irene stopped communicating
Once home, she had a fever that eventually passed. The parents then began to notice that the ordinary babbling, cooing, baby talking, and so forth had completely ceased. Their baby could no longer talk! She would open her mouth and appear as if she were trying to speak, but could only manage to stick out her tongue. “She is not talking at all,” reported her terrified father. “It seems to me when she tries to make noise, all she does is stick out her tongue. Her tongue is out a lot more now and she is chewing her thumb and moving her tongue around a lot in the process.”
Read rest of story here: http://dprogram.net/2012/04/03/baby-receives-cocktail-of-seven-vaccines-loses-ability-to-speak-recovers-with-homeopathic-shock-remedies/
CDC Report Finds 1 In 49 Children In NJ Identified With Autism
March 29, 2012
WASHINGTON, D.C. — The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that 1 in 88 children in the United States, and 1 in 49 children in New Jersey, have been identified as having an autism spectrum disorder (ASD), according to a new study released today. Autism spectrum disorders are almost five times more common among boys than girls – with 1 in 54 boys identified.
The number of children identified with ASDs ranged from 1 in 210 children in Alabama to 1 in 47 children in Utah. The largest increases were among Hispanic and black children.
The report, “Prevalence of Autism Spectrum Disorders – Autism and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring Network, 14 Sites, United States, 2008,” provides autism prevalence estimates from 14 areas. It was published today in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.
“This information paints a picture of the magnitude of the condition across our country and helps us understand how communities identify children with autism,” said Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius. “That is why HHS and our entire administration has been working hard to improve the lives of people living with autism spectrum disorders and their families by improving research, support, and services.”
Read rest of story here: http://njtoday.net/2012/03/29/cdc-report-finds-1-in-49-children-in-nj-identified-with-autism/
CDC Says Autism Rate Rising
Thursday, 29 Mar 2012, 6:20 PM CDT
HOUSTON - From "Scary" to "Horrifying”: that's how many view newly released autism numbers from the Center for Disease Control. Five years ago, one out of 150 children was challenged with some form of autism.
Today, the number is one in 88.
"The way I view it, the CDC has abjectly failed our children. There has been a 78 percent increase in autism in this decade.
"Inevitably, if we don't do something different they are going to keep going up," said Leslie Phillips of Katy, mother of a son with autism and board member of the National Autism Association.
Read rest of story here: http://www.myfoxhouston.com/dpp/news/local/120329-cdc-says-autism-rate-rising
How many children have to suffer from autism to call this an emergency?” Advocates Say HHS Secretary Must Declare Autism A Health Emergency
Wed 18 Apr 2012 07:26
Grassroots autism advocacy organizations representing over 100,000 autism families held a press conference Monday, April 2, 2012, World Autism Day, to push for official recognition of autism as a national public health emergency and to analyze the federal health authorities’ ongoing failure to respond.
Read rest of story here: http://beforeitsnews.com/story/2043/559/...
CDC to Announce New Autism Rate of 1 in 88, and Likely to Declare “No Public Health Emergency” and “No Epidemic”
Wednesday, 28 March 2012 10:22
This week, the Canary Party expects CDC to announce a new autism prevalence rate of 1 in 88. As boys are diagnosed with autism at more than four times the rate of girls, this translates to 1 in 54 boys. That new rate would be an increase from the previous 1 in 110 reported two years ago by the CDC’s ADDM (Autism Developmental Disabilities Monitoring) Network. This would only be the latest uptick in the autism rate reported by CDC, as the disorder was diagnosed in 1 in 10,000 in the 1960s, and the rate was virtually zero before 1930.
The Canary Party also expects federal health authorities to continue to downplay the seriousness of the skyrocketing autism rate, just as they have done for the past two decades since the rate began rising dramatically. Canary Party Chairman and autism father Mark Blaxill, drawing on his own experience working with federal agencies on autism for many years, commented, “No matter how high the autism rate soars, the CDC’s continued denial of an autism epidemic is certitude comparable to death and taxes.”
Read rest of story here: http://canaryparty.net/index.php/the-news/94-the-canary-party-expects-cdc-to-announce-new-autism-rate-of-1-in-88-and-believes-cdc-likely-to-declare-no-public-health-emergency-and-no-epidemic
Wakefield’s Autism Research Is Cited by Researchers Who Say They Can’t Replicate It
26 September 2011
Something rather strange is going on in autism research. Andrew Wakefield was smeared, his reputation trashed, his career torched, and his work labeled every negative thing conceivable—including fraud. The Lancet pulled his work off their site; they disappeared it. Everything conceivable was done to discredit Wakefield’s work and make it disappear. So why are researchers who have disavowed Wakefield and his work, and who have stated that it isn’t replicable, now citing his papers extensively? The only thing they don’t do is use the initials M, M, and R in one breath.
Read rest of story here: http://gaia-health.com/gaia-blog/2011-09-26/wakefields-autism-research-is-cited-by-researchers-who-say-they-cant-replicate-it/
Federal government has paid out vaccine autism compensation awards to 83 families
September 21, 2011
(NaturalNews) The USA National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (VICP) is a crafty federal program to relieve the vaccine industry from liability for extreme vaccine injuries. Most claims have been rejected. But enough claims have been awarded to indicate the government's secret awareness of the link between a vaccine and autism while publicly denying it.
Read rest of story here: http://www.naturalnews.com/033635_vaccine_injury_compensation_government.html
How the mouse brain is influenced by the gut
30 August 2011
Eating a strain of gut-loving bacteria reduces anxiety-like behaviour in mice - a finding that suggests a spoonful of microbes could help stress levels go down in people too.
The human gut is home to about 1000 trillion bacteria, which prevent pathogenic bacteria infiltrating our bowels. Once thought to simply prevent diarrhoea, gut bacteria have recently been linked to autism, reducing the symptoms of Parkinson's disease, and treating eczema. Now it seems these microbes can also reduce stress in animals and humans.
Read rest of story here: http://www.newscientist.com/blogs/shortsharpscience/2011/08/-eating-a-strain-of.html
Institute of Medicine adverse reactions report admits MMR vaccines cause measles, seizures, anaphylaxis and other health problems
Sunday, August 28, 2011
(NaturalNews) The Institute of Medicine, which has long functioned as a front group for the pharmaceutical industry and receives tens of millions of dollars in annual funding from drug companies and global elitists (like Bill Gates, Ted Turner, etc.), has issued a report that declares the MMR vaccine is not linked to autism. This is now being widely reported in the conventional (controlled) media, which isn't telling you the real story behind this report.
What's the real story? That this IOM report, even though it goes out of its way to excuse vaccines and dismiss safety concerns, still openly admits that vaccines cause measles, febrile seizures, anaphylactic shock and other potentially fatal side effects. It also admits that other vaccines are linked to a whole host of bizarre side effects, including skin lesions, difficulty breathing and live virus infections (see complete list, below).
Read rest of story here: http://www.naturalnews.com/033447_Institute_of_Medicine_vaccines.html
VACCINES AND BLUE FOOT SYNDROME
Dr. Sherri Tenpenny, DO - May 17, 2011
I grow weary of people who continually want “proof” that vaccines cause harm and can cause autism. Every year the insistence for “More research!! More research!” goes by, four million more children born each year are lined up to be injected with dozens of doses of 16 different vaccines. Many of these precious bundles will become chronically ill; some will become statistics.
Webster defines proof as "something that induces certainty or establishes validity." What level of "proof" yet needs to be demonstrated that will be described as definitive confirmation? Video of children the day before, and then the day after, vaccines have documented autistic regression; the recordings are even admissible in Court as evidence. Is that enough "proof"? Heart wrenching stories about side effects after vaccines – high pitched screaming, vomiting, seizures and even death – have been told by the thousands of parents. Is that proof, or all they all liars?
Read rest of story here: http://www.newswithviews.com/Tenpenny/sherri130.htm
Response to “Anti-Vaccine Proponents Claim Court Paid for Autism Cases”
Elizabeth Birt Center for Autism Law & Advocacy May 2011
As one of my coauthors may already have communicated to you, we take exception to the title of your piece, with specific reference to your use of the word "anti-vaccine." There is no statement in our paper that communicates any "anti-vaccine" view, whatsoever. ...
We do believe that what we found – including the number of cases of"autism" that we found – is significant, and justifies further investigation of all the compensated cases.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ebcala.org/unanswered-questions/response-to-anti-vaccine-proponents-claim-court-paid-for-autism-cases
Prevalence of Autism Spectrum Disorders in a Total Population Sample
May 9, 2011 by autismsciencefoundation
A long-awaited study of autism prevalence in Korea came out today in the The American Journal of Psychiatry. Most of the information we have about autism prevalence comes from the US, the UK and Europe, so many were looking at this as the “Korean Study”. It is that, and very much more.
...
The results? A much higher prevalence estimate than previously found, along with a large fraction of the autistic students previously unidentified and being educated in regular education programs.
Read rest of story here: http://autismsciencefoundation.wordpress.com/2011/05/09/prevalence-of-autism-spectrum-disorders-in-a-total-population-sample/
PDF of study, more information:
ajp.psychiatryonline.org/cgi/reprint/appi.ajp.2011.10101532v1
Autism's Causes: How Close Are We to Solving the Puzzle?
April 20, 2011
ROBERT MACNEIL: As we've reported, autism now affects one American child in a 110. Last month, a committee convened by public health officials in Washington called it a national health emergency. The dramatic rise in official figures over the last decade has generated a surge of scientific research to find what is causing autism.
Read/view-video rest of story here: http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/health/jan-june11/autism3causes_04-20.html
Autism Now: Robert MacNeil Shares Grandson Nick's Story
REPORT AIR DATE: April 18, 2011
In the first of six reports in his Autism Now series, former NewsHour anchor Robert MacNeil takes viewers on a visit with his 6-year-old grandson, Nick, to see how autism affects the whole family. Nick experiences autism not just as a brain-development disorder, but also as physical ailments affecting his whole body.
Read rest of story here: http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/health/jan-june11/autism_04-18.html
Note: this PBS special is a 6 part series. Viewers Guide
Autism Diagnoses Bring Slew of Costs for Families
Seth Mnookin walks away without answering awkward questions on US government concessions regarding autism and vaccine
April 19, 2011
Panic Virus’ author Seth Mnookin closed his blog the other week entitled ‘More embarrassing reporting from CBS News’s Sharyl Attkisson’ (HERE) without responding to fundamental criticisms. ...
CHS summarised the points on Mnookin’s blog:-
- The US HRSA has confirmed vaccines can cause autistic conditions.
- Merck’s current Director of Vaccines Division confirmed vaccines can cause autistic conditions – and that was when she was the Head of the US Centers for Disease Control.
- Autistic conditions can be caused by multiple vaccines as was conceded by the US Department of Health and Human Services in the Hannah Poling case.
- Autistic conditions can result from acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) following MMR vaccination as held by the US Federal Court in the case of Bailey Banks.
- The increase in autistic conditions, diabetes, childhood asthma and obesity can only be caused by enviromental factors as was confirmed by the current Director of the US National Institutes of Health and leading geneticist Dr Francis Collins in evidence to Congress when he was head of the Human Genome Project.
- the rate in the USA is approximately 1 in 100 and in the UK it is 1 in 64
- the cost to the UK has been estimated to be £28 billion per annum.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2011/04/seth-mnookin-never-answered-questions-on-us-government-vaccine-autism-concessions.html
Indicted Researcher Poul Thorsen: Autism Speaks' Original Trailblazer
April 19, 2011
Poul Thorsen, indicted last week (HERE) by US Attorneys for embezzling tax payers money via the Centers for Disease Control, also received $1 Million in funding through an Autism Speaks grant in 2008 (HERE). Now Autism Speaks is trying to hide their Thorsen affiliation. Why is that?
Families across the country work diligently to raise money for Autism Speaks at over 80 walks per year, despite the knowledge that Autism Speaks' research approach has always been to supplement projects currently underway by the CDC and NIH. This arrangement between Autism Speaks and the CDC/NIH amounts to a supplemental federal tax. However, walkers are willing to contribute, and individuals can light their money on fire by contributing at walks if they want.
...
Poul Thorsen crafted the plan to use Denmark vaccination data despite the fact that CDC, Thorsen and the NAAR board all knew that Denmark's vaccine schedule then, and now, is not remotely similar to the US vaccine schedule. The results of the Denmark studies helped the CDC out of a tough spot and over the past decade, Thorsen's studies were utilized by the CDC repeatedly to falsely reassure the American public about the safety of vaccines. CDC certainly owed Thorsen.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2011/04/indicted-researcher-poul-thorsen-autism-speaks-original-trailblazer.html
Is Autism Speaks Giving Poul Thorsen the Old Huck Finn Treatment?
April 19, 2011
In 2008, Autism Speaks reported on their epidemiology grants on their web site. They let supporters know that they were funding a one million dollar international autism registry with CDC and several international researchers including:
"Poul Thorsen, MD, PhD, University of Aarhus, Denmark and Emory University, USA.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2011/04/is-autism-speaks-giving-poul-thorsen-the-old-huck-finn-treatment.html
Poul Thorsen: The CDC Finances, Writes and Helps Publish Danish Research
April 14, 2011
With Danish CDC researcher Poul Thorsen now charged 13 counts of fraud and 9 of money laundering Age of Autism revisits this fascinating article by Dr F Edward Yazbak, originally published by ‘Red Flags’ in 2005 (Read full article HERE.) The article suggests the central role Thorsen had in the Great Vaccine Whitewash. Below is an email exchange from the paper:
Read rest of story here:
Dane indicted for defrauding CDC
April 13, 2011
A Danish man was indicted Wednesday on charges of wire fraud and money laundering for allegedly concocting a scheme to steal more than $1 million in autism research money from the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The indictment charges Poul Thorsen, 49, with 13 counts of wire fraud and nine counts of money laundering. The wire fraud counts each carry a maximum of 20 years in prison and the money laundering counts each carry a maximum of 10 years in prison, with a fine of up to $250,000 for each count.
Read rest of story here: http://www.bizjournals.com/atlanta/news/2011/04/13/dane-indicted-for-defrauding-cdc.html
US Prosecutors Seek Extradition of Madsen MMR/Autism Denmark Study Author for US$1m MMR & Mercury Autism Research Fraud
April 14, 2011
Reuters reports that US prosecutors have indicted and seek the extradition of Aarhus University, Denmark’s MMR/mercury & autism researcher Poul Thorsen 49, on 13 counts of wire fraud and nine counts of money laundering. This relates to monies paid to Thorsen by the US Centers for Disease Control including for research into the relationship between autism and exposure to vaccines. Thorsen used the stolen money to buy a home in Atlanta, a Harley Davidson motorcycle and two cars, prosecutors said.
Read rest of story here: http://childhealthsafety.wordpress.com/2011/04/14/poul-thorsen-us1m-mmr-fraud/
Dr. Peter Gerhardt on the Needs of Adults with Autism
April 10, 2011
As you'll read, Dr. Gerhardt is among the growing community of autism experts who is concerned that we will soon be overwhelmed by a "wave" of adults with autism spectrum diagnoses. In his view, available resources are already swamped - and are unlikely to improve quickly in the present economic environment. Gerhardt outlines the issues, and then presents a challenge, paraphrasing Hubert Humphrey: "For generations of adults with autism and their families, this is a test we cannot afford to fail."
Read rest of story here: http://autism.about.com/b/2011/04/10/dr-peter-gerhardt-on-the-needs-of-adults-with-autism.htm
SafeMinds Comments on Pediatrics Study on Thimerosal and Vaccines
September 20, 2010
Background
This study was funded by CDC and conducted by several parties with an interest in protecting vaccine use: ... The CDC and AHIP overruled the external consultants. The paper published this week in Pediatrics reported the curious finding that increased mercury exposure from thimerosal in vaccines actually decreased the risk of having an autism diagnosis.
Study Limitations
There are two primary deficiencies in the study methodology which would lead to the curious finding of a protective, rather than a harmful effect of early thimerosal exposure found in the study. The first deficiency concerns the variables used for stratification and the second concerns the low participation rate leading to sample bias.
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2010/09/safeminds-comments-on-pediatrics-study-on-thimerosal-and-vaccines.html
The Not-So-Crackpot Autism Theory
By ARTHUR ALLEN Published: November 10, 2002
Neal Halsey's life was dedicated to promoting vaccination. In June 1999, the Johns Hopkins pediatrician and scholar had completed a decade of service on the influential committees that decide which inoculations will be jabbed into the arms and thighs and buttocks of eight million American children each year. At the urging of Halsey and others, the number of vaccines mandated for children under 2 in the 90's soared to 20, from 8.
...
And then suddenly in June 1999, during a visit to the Food and Drug Administration, a squall appeared on the horizon of Halsey's confidence. Halsey attended a meeting to discuss thimerosal, a mercury-containing preservative that at the time was being used in several vaccines -- including the hepatitis B shot that Halsey had fought so hard to have administered to American babies.
Read rest of story here: http://www.nytimes.com/2002/11/10/magazine/10AUTISM.html?pagewanted=1
Vaccine Court: Autism Debate Continues
Court Again Concedes Vaccines Cause Autism
Jun 10 2009
This week, in aHuffington Postexclusive, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and investigative journalist David Kirby reveal that in the recent case of Bailey Banks vs HHS, the Vaccine Court has ruled vaccines caused Bailey’s autism and ordered compensation for his family.
Banks is the second case where the government could not deny the overwhelming evidence showing vaccines caused a child’s autism. The first was the case of Hannah Poling in March 2008. The government conceded the case and awarded her family compensation.
Small victories for these children, but what about the hundreds of thousands of other families struggling with autism? Who and what can they believe in this continuing vaccine-autism controversy?
Read rest of story here: http://www.wellsphere.com/autism-autism-spectrum-article/vaccine-court-autism-debate-continues/705091
I Am Josh. A Boy After His MMR.
Posted by Age of Autism April 14, 2010
...Autism File magazine gave us permission to print part of this article about Josh Edwards, in the UK
Read rest of story here: http://www.ageofautism.com/2010/04/i-am-josh-a-boy-after-his-mmr.html
See also Legal_News for autism related stories.
NEWS: Autism_News | EbolaNews | FluNews | General_(All) | HPV | Legal | Right_To_Refuse | SBS | Science/AdverseEvents | Wakefield | Older News_IndexPage
Vaccination Liberation - Idaho Chapter
"Free Your Mind....From The Vaccine Paradigm"
Vaccination Liberation Main Pages
VacLib_Home www.VacLib.org | SearchVacLib