Do blueberries cut your risk of type 2 diabetes? |
Skip to content
Follow:
RSS
Twitter
Home
Competition
Schools competition
Undergraduate competition
Terms and Conditions
“How To” Tips
1. Don’t stop at the headline
2. What did the researchers actually say?
3. Independent experts?
4. Links to the original work?
5. Associations handled correctly?
6. How to assess risk?
7. Is the article biased?
8. No study stands alone
9. Consistent with other articles?
10. Exaggeration and opinion
Links
About Us
Tags
Blueberries, diabetes
Do blueberries cut your risk of type 2 diabetes?
by Duncan Forgan on	2013/10/07
© Gurpinders | Dreamstime Stock Photos
What did the researchers say?
Fruits and fruit juices have long been associated with healthier living. ‘An apple a day keeps the doctor away’ is a classic refrain, and it is true that the vitamins and fibre in fruits are beneficial to humans, and have been shown to reduce the risk of contracting some chronic diseases.
However, the evidence surrounding fruit’s ability to reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes is not particularly clear. The researchers note that previous studies may not agree with each other because of differences in the groups of people asked to take part, not to mention the nutritional properties of the different fruits used.
Isao Muraki, Fumiaki Imamura, Jo Ann E Manson, Frank B Hu, Walter C Willett, Rob M van Dam, Qi Sun (2013). Fruit consumption and risk of type 2 diabetes: results from three prospective longitudinal cohort studies. British Journal of Medicine, 347, doi: 10.1136/bmj.f5001
The researchers tried to dispel this uncertainty by going to data from a longitudinal study of nurses which has been running since the late 1970s. With around 180,000 people in the sample, this study has a good chance of finding results that are statistically important. The study included questionnaires sent to the nurses every four years, asking them about their consumption of 10 individual fruits, including
grapes or raisins; peaches, plums or apricots; prunes; bananas; cantaloupe, apples or pears; oranges, grapefruit; strawberries; and blueberries
(they also asked some follow-up questions about watermelon, for reasons that are not made clear in the paper). These fruits were chosen because they span a range of different values of glycemic index (or GI), which measures how quickly blood sugar levels rise after consumption. High GI foods have been linked with obesity, and a low GI diet has been shown to reduce type 2 diabetes risk.
The authors found that respondents who ate more blueberries, grapes, apples, bananas and grapefruit were less likely to develop type 2 diabetes. Surprisingly, the GI of these fruits is not linked to diabetes risk: grapefruit is a low GI fruit, but bananas and apples are high GI fruits! Also, drinking too much fruit juice increases your risk of type 2 diabetes, as juice can affect your blood sugar levels much more rapidly than fruit. In fact, the researchers find that substituting juice for whole fruit also reduces your diabetes risk.
The authors note that one of the main weaknesses of the study is the reliability of respondents to the questionnaires. Everyone knows that you should eat fruit, and there is a possibility that respondents inflated their fruit consumption to meet society’s standards, so the amount by which risk is reduced might change depending on the cultural norms of the participants in the study. Also, despite the large sample size, the study is strongly biased towards participants who have European ancestry, and the sample is not well balanced in terms of gender (the sample is around 80% female).
What did the media say?
ITV news briefly mention the story here, but also publish comments from Dr Matthew Hobbs, head of research for Diabetes UK, who warns about the study’s ability to discern between individual fruits given the potential for recall bias, i.e. humans can be biased towards remembering certain things more than others, and this can affect which fruits respondents note in their questionnaires. Sadly, they do not post a link to the original paper.
The Mirror goes into the detailed figures by which individual fruits cut risk, and adds a quote given to the British medical journal from a Harvard team. It’s not clear from this attribution whether they mean the original research team, or another team offering their comment on the work. Again, no link to the paper.
The Huffington Post reported the story in more detail, listing the risks of each fruit explicitly, and mentioning where the paper is published (again, no explicit link). They quote at length from an interview with Dr Hobbs about limitations of the study, giving him the chance to detail his dietary advice to prevent diabetes.
The media are quite keen to quote percentage reductions in risk from such studies, but Dr Hobbs is right to be cautious about making statements like this. After all, quoting numbers like these without error bars or some estimate of how uncertain you are about them can be dangerous, especially as there are potential biases lurking in the data, which the authors themselves want to investigate further.
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Pocket
Share on Tumblr
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
From → Biomedical, News Stories
3 Comments
FB Marketing permalink
It’s hard to come by knowledgeable people for this subject, but you sound like you know what you’re talking about!
Thanks
Reply
Trackbacks & Pingbacks
Please Stay Away from These Drugs for Type 2 Diabetes | Prepper Podcast Radio Network
Comparing the Coverage: Caffeine Memory Pills vs Curing Diabetes with Chocolate and Wine |
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
« Bracelets and Arthritis – Decoration or Cure?
No Science Behind the Story »
Vote for us at the UK Blog Awards.
Follow on WordPress.com
Research the Headlines addresses the way in which research is discussed and portrayed in the media. Each post will take recent media coverage of a piece of research as a starting point, and will allow readers to get to a better understanding of what was really done, and what it might mean for them, from an expert but independent position. The blog is intended to be of interest to those with and without any training in research.
Top Posts
Curing Cancer with Salt?
How do cancer cells behave in space?
The STEM gender equality paradox- from fallacies to facts
Milk... Is it worthy of the tag line "what more can a body ask for?"
Mental health in television soaps
Categories
Categories Select Category “How to” tips (12) Announcements (36) Astronomy (9) Biology (36) Biomedical (77) Chemistry (15) Computer Science (1) Education (14) Electronics (2) Environment (5) Finance (3) Geology (4) Government (5) Health (101) History (3) Infographic Analysis (2) Mathematics (2) Meteorology (4) News Stories (184) Physics (8) Psychology (89) Robotics (1) Science or Fiction (18) Talking Headlines (13) Uncategorized (12) Under the Radar (8)
Contributors
Our contributors are all current and former members of the Royal Society of Edinburgh‘s Young Academy of Scotland. They represent a broad and multidisciplinary group of individuals, coming from science and the humanities, the professions, the arts, business and civil society.
Login
Blog at WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Our Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: