immune system | Anaximperator blog
Home
About
About Me
See This!
Comments
Contact
Links
Anaximperator blog
Blogging against alternative cancer treatments
Tag Archives: immune system
Health Ranger Mike Adams And The Death of Steve Jobs
22 Comments Posted by beatis on October 7, 2011
As was to be expected, it didn’t take Mike Adams long to inform the world of the cause of Steve Job’s death. It was of course, as it always is, conventional cancer treatments – chemotherapy and radiation in particular – and not cancer, for in Mike Adams’s world-of-miracles-that-never-happen, there is no such thing as dying from cancer.
Read more of this post
Advertisements
Cancer, chemotherapy, diet and cancer, Health fraud, Mike Adams, Uncategorized	alternative medicine, cam, Cancer, cancer diet, chemo, chemotherapy, diet and cancer, evidence-based medicine, Health fraud, immune system, pancreatic cancer, quackery
9 Questions that Stump Every Pro-Vaccine Advocate and Their Claims – Plus 9 Answers and Some Counter Questions
43 Comments Posted by beatis on May 8, 2010
Although the article referred to in this post is about vaccines and not cancer, we still think it is very relevant, as it clearly shows the methods applied by many altmeds to discredit science and scientists.
On his website, David Mihalovic, who describes himself as a naturopathic medical doctor specializing in vaccine research, asks 9 questions about vaccines which he claims no vaccine-expert can answer.
Well, Mark Crislip on Science-Based Medicine does answer them – and at the same time presents some counter questions to be answered by David Mihalovic.
Read more of this post
Uncategorized, vaccines	alternative medicine, aluminium, anti vaccionists, cam, Cancer, david mihalovic, evidence-based medicine, holistic, immune system, mark crislip, measles, mercury, naturopathy, pertussis, polio, quackery, rubella, smallpox, tetanua, thimerosal, thiomersal, vaccine efficacy, vaccine research, vaccine safety, vaccines, whooping cough
Sodium Bicarbonate Really Works… for H1N1 influenza!
16 Comments Posted by cryptocheilus on December 18, 2009
Oh, my. We overlooked something. ‘Respected’ woo-meister Dr Mercola proposes another use for Sodium Bicarbonate! As he believes, it cannot only cure cancer, but is also a good for ….. treating H1N1 influenza!
In 1918 and 1919 while fighting the ‘flu’ with the U. S. Public Health Service it was brought to my attention that rarely anyone who had been thoroughly alkalinized with bicarbonate of soda contracted the disease, and those who did contract it, if alkalinized early, would invariably have mild attacks.
Miracles do happen!
Read more of this post
Cancer, Fungus and sodium bicarbonate	alternative medicine, baking soda, cam, Cancer, candida, candida albicans, cat scan, chemo, chemotherapy, flu, fungus, H1N1, Health fraud, holistic, immune system, Mark Sircus, quackery, Simoncini, sodium bicarbonate, Tullio Simoncini
Sodium Bicarbonate Really Works! :-)
32 Comments Posted by beatis on November 15, 2009
We have spent a lot of energy here to debunk Tullio Simoncini’s baking soda therapy as a cure for cancer.
I am afraid we may have been wrong…
Read more of this post
Fungus and sodium bicarbonate, Miscellaneous, Tullio Simoncini, Uncategorized	alternative medicine, baking soda, cam, Cancer, candida, candida albicans, cat scan, chemo, chemotherapy, fungus, Health fraud, holistic, immune system, quackery, Simoncini, sodium bicarbonate, Tullio Simoncini
Cancer Metastasis According to the Gospel of Tony Isaacs on Curezone
17 Comments Posted by beatis on November 6, 2009
Doll made of liver cancer cells
Many proponents of alternative medicine claim that surgical removal of cancer is very dangerous because it will cause the cancer to spread. Therefore, they strongly advise against any kind of surgery in case of cancer.
On Tony Isaacs’s Curezone, a forum member is asking advice on how to treat advanced liver cancer. The patient in question – the forum member’s mother – has previously undergone surgery. But according to Tony Isaacs it is precisely surgery that causes cancer to metastasize:
Read more of this post
Cancer, chemotherapy, Curezone, metastasis, tony isaacs, Uncategorized	alternative medicine, blood, cam, Cancer, carcinoma, cayenne pepper tincture, chemo, chemotherapy, enema, evidence, Health fraud, holistic, immune system, iodine, liver flush, liver tincture, luella may, metastases, metastasis, mike adams, naturopathy, positive thinking, quackery, selenium, supplements, tony isaacs, vitamins
Stephen Serenelli’s Scientology Cancer Diet Experience: Read It And Weep
5 Comments Posted by beatis on October 4, 2009
On October 26, 2004, Stephen Serenelli died of bowel cancer.
Initially he was treated conventionally, but under the strong influence of his wife Eileen and Ian Shillington, a naturopathic doctor and Scientologist, he decided to follow alternative treatments only.
The alternative treatments made him feel weak and miserable and resulted in his tumour becoming inoperable. This almost certainly shortened his life considerably and seriously compromised his quality of life. The fact that the alternative treatments wore him out so much may have decreased his survival time even more.
Shortly before his death, Serenelli wrote a letter to his ND Ian Shillington. Serenelli also kept a diary during his illness.
Cancer, chemotherapy, diet and cancer, Uncategorized	alternative medicine, anti cancer diet, anti-cancer foods, Cancer, chemo, chemotherapy, gerson, gonzales, Health fraud, holistic, immune system, juicing, Macrobiotics, naturopathy, Nutrition, quackery, scientology, shillington, supplements
Is It True That Only 2 Or 3 % Of Cancer Patients Survive Chemotherapy?
165 Comments Posted by beatis on September 2, 2009
No, it’s not true: currently, the average cancer cure rate is close to 60%.
Some time ago I happened to read a discussion on Tony Isaacs’s Curezone, on the best treatment for breast cancer. The thread was started by a woman who had just been diagnosed with breast cancer.
Tony Isaacs’ partner Luella May suggested the forum member paint her breasts with iodine to combat the cancer and advised strongly against surgery and all other forms of conventional cancer treatments:
Read more of this post
Cancer, chemotherapy, Curezone, tony isaacs, Uncategorized	alternative medicine, australian study, barton, boosting, cam, Cancer, cancer cure rate, cancer survival, candida, carcinoma, chemo, chemotherapy, evidence-based medicine, fungus, holistic, immune system, metastases, mets, morgan, quackery, radiation, ward
Tullio Simoncini: Of Rodents, Research and Baking Soda
4 Comments Posted by beatis on August 9, 2009
In the stats of this blog I can see from which pages people clicked to get to our blog. Sometimes I take a peek at these pages, as I did last week.
It landed me in a discussion on the ‘cancer therapy’ of Tullio Simoncini, which included some rather opinionated proponents of our Italian friend. A blog member named Byron stated that there was no evidence to prove Simoncini wrong, so I decided to tell them that research showed that sodium bicarbonate does nothing to stop cancer growth and was found even to stimulate it, giving the relevant link on our blog.
Read more of this post
Cancer, Fungus and sodium bicarbonate, Health fraud, Tullio Simoncini, Uncategorized	alternative medicine, baking soda, cam, Cancer, candida, candida albicans, carcinoma, chemo, chemotherapy, evidence-based medicine, fungus, Health fraud, holistic, immune system, lab animals, metastases, quackery, research, Simoncini, sodium bicarbonate, Tullio Simoncini
With Complements From Boots
8 Comments Posted by beatis on August 8, 2009
Oh my…
😆
Uncategorized	alternative medicine, boosting, boots, cam, candida, candida albicans, complementary, echinacea, energy, garlic, Health fraud, holistic, homeopathy, immune system, iscador, menopause, mistletoe, quackery, supplements, viscum album, vitamins
Alternative Medicine and Why It Seems To Work
1 Comment Posted by beatis on June 27, 2009
Very rarely have alternative treatments or medication been able to show any therapeutic value. Yet countless people swear by it and are convinced they can’t do without.
The mysterious placebo effect has everything to do with this. But what is it and how does it work? Harriet Hall explains.
Cancer, Health fraud, How science works, Uncategorized	acupuncture, alternative medicine, cam, Cancer, chiropractic, echinacea, evidence, garlic, HBOT, Health fraud, holistic, homeopathy, hoxsey therapy, hulda clarck, immune system, iscador, osteopathy, personality, positive thinking, quackery, rife, science, supplements, viscum album, vitamins, zapper
← Older posts
RSS feed
Recent comments
JLI on Is It True That Only 2 Or 3 %…
Jordan on Is It True That Only 2 Or 3 %…
Burzynski The Movie:… on Burzynski The Movie: Does It P…
Natasha Zarich on Is It True That Only 2 Or 3 %…
JLI on Homeopathy For Cancer, Endorse…
Paulo de Oliveira on Homeopathy For Cancer, Endorse…
6 Common Misconcepti… on Sugar depleted diet is not a c…
JLI on Drinking baking soda does not…
Steve Collier on Drinking baking soda does not…
JLI on German New Medicine (GNM) and…
Recent posts
Man wasn’t dying from colon cancer, and he didn’t cure himself with Cannabis
A Fungus Ball is a Fungus Ball – and not Cancer
Drinking baking soda does not cure cancer
Sugar depleted diet is not a cure for cancer
Homeopathy For Cancer, Endorsed by ASCO?? Not Really
Cancer Research UK Science Update Blog
News digest – red and processed meat, DNA ‘fingerprints’, targeted leukaemia drugs and CRISPR April 19, 2019
Science Surgery: ‘How do tumours ‘know’ where to spread?’ April 18, 2019
News digest – cancer ‘vaccine factories’, cataloguing DNA weaknesses, NHS drug decisions and cancer sniffing canines April 13, 2019
Psiram/Esowatch
Psirama – Der Psiram-Wochenrückblick (KW 14, 2019) April 7, 2019
Psirama – Der Psiram-Wochenrückblick (KW 12, 2019) March 24, 2019
Die Wahrheit in der Wissenschaft – oder die Wahrheit in Bild der Wissenschaft? March 17, 2019
Respectul Insolence
An error has occurred; the feed is probably down. Try again later.
Science-Based Medicine
Chiropractor Treating Concussions for Earlier Return to Play April 23, 2019
Bleaching away what ails you: The Genesis II Church is still selling Miracle Mineral Supplement as a cure-all April 22, 2019
New Research Reveals a Startling Increase in Pediatric Foreign-Body Ingestions April 19, 2019
Edzard Ernst
Chiropractors treating children – is it not time to stop these charlatans? April 24, 2019
‘Mom’s Choice Awards’ for a homeopathic product – was it for the maximum number of false claims in one single product? April 23, 2019
A risk-benefit assessment of (chiropractic) neck manipulation April 22, 2019
Blogroll
A pathologist examines: cancer and fungus
Alternative Medicine and Cancer
Ars GeriatriCare (Dutch)
Cancer Research UK
Cancer Survival in Europe
Cryptocheilus medical blog (Dutch)
Dr. Len's Cancer Blog
EBM-first: What alternative health practitioners might not tell you
Medbunker blogspot (Italian)
My Malignant Melanoma
Psiram/Esowatch (German)
Quackwatch
Science-Based Medicine
Top Posts
Infant Dies after "Craniosacral" Therapy
Is It True That Only 2 Or 3 % Of Cancer Patients Survive Chemotherapy?
German New Medicine (GNM): Hamer House of Horrors
Tullio Simoncini's Lucrative Little Cancer Cure sCam?
Marion lost her father to the "German New Medicine" of Ryke Geerd Hamer
Categories
Categories Select Category Andreas Moritz antineoplaston therapy autism biologie totale Bogus tests Cancer chemotherapy claude sabbah Contraptions craniosacral therapy Curezone diet and cancer Fungus and sodium bicarbonate German New Medicine (GNM) Hamer Health fraud homeopathy How science works images Macrobiotics Magical thinking manual therapy Medical machines metastasis Mike Adams Miscellaneous palliative care personality and cancer philosophy Psychology and cancer Robert O. Young science simon singh Surgery tony isaacs Tullio Simoncini Uncategorized vaccines
acupuncture alternative cancer treatment alternative medicine antisemitic baking soda biologie totale boosting breast cancer cam Cancer candida candida albicans carcinoma Caroline Markolin cat scan chemo chemotherapy chief rabbi chiropractic claude sabbah corinne thos Dirk Hamer echinacea evidence evidence-based medicine fungus garlic Germanische Neue Medizin German Medicine German New Medicine GNM götz Hamer HBOT Health fraud holistic homeopathy hoxsey therapy hulda clarck images immune system iscador iwan götz jewish conspiracy libel manual therapy medecine nouvelle meta medicine metametrix metastases Michaeala Jakubczyk mistletoe naturopathy nouvelle medécine olivia pilhar osteopathy personality Philosophy of science positive thinking psychological aspects and cancer quackery rife Ryke Geerd Hamer santegod schneerson science Simoncini sodium bicarbonate supplements tony isaacs total biology Tullio Simoncini viscum album vitamins zapper
Pathology.org
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Sign me up!
Advertisements
↑ Top Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy