10 Essential Oils for Nausea & How to Use Them - NaturallyDaily
Naturally Daily
Home
Essential Oil
Food
Remedies
No Result
View All Result
Home
Essential Oil
Food
Remedies
No Result
View All Result
Naturally Daily
No Result
View All Result
Home » Remedies » 10 Essential Oils for Nausea & How to Use Them
10 Essential Oils for Nausea & How to Use Them
by Naturally Daily Team
11 months ago
in Remedies
Nausea refers to an unpleasant sensation felt in the stomach that causes an urge to vomit [1].
Contrary to what some people think, nausea is not a disease but is a symptom of an underlying condition.
The most common cause is viral gastroenteritis, otherwise known as the stomach flu [1].
It’s important to determine the underlying cause particularly in cases of chronic nausea.
It might be a sign of a serious medical condition.
Be sure to consult your doctor immediately.
To get temporary relief, it would be a good idea to rely on quick and easy home remedies for nausea. Using essential oils is one of those easy natural cures for nausea.
Keep reading to learn more:
Causes of nausea
10 Essential oils for relieving nausea and vomiting
How to use essential oils for treating nausea
RELATED: Nausea After Eating: Reasons And Remedies
Common Causes of Nausea
In case you are experiencing a nausea, the cause may be any of the following:
Morning sickness during pregnancy
Migraine
Rotavirus
Motion sickness
Chemotherapy
Gastroparesis, a condition that causes the stomach muscles to malfunction and disrupt digestion
General anesthesia
Vestibular neuritis [2]
Other possible causes include:
Severe pain
Intake of certain medications
Emotional stress
Excessive alcohol consumption
Infections
Brain injury
Heart attack
Certain smells [3]
10 Essential Oils for Nausea and Vomiting
1. Ginger Oil
Ginger is a root that comes from a flowering plant from the plant family Zingiberaceae [4].
Folk healers have been using its extract oil for years to treat a wide range of conditions including inflammation, respiratory ailments, upset stomach and menstrual disorders.
It is also an effective remedy for nausea.
Several studies have shown that ginger is highly effective as a nausea treatment.
In a study published in the Alternative Therapies in Health and Medicine, a total of 26 pregnant women in their first trimester were given either ginger or a placebo [5].
By the 6th day, 67 percent of the pregnant women in the ginger group reported significant improvement in morning sickness symptoms such as nausea and vomiting [5].
Another study conducted at the University of Exeter in the UK found that using ginger before surgery reduced postoperative nausea [6].
Researchers confirmed that ginger also works for other types of nausea including seasickness, motion sickness, morning sickness and nausea caused by chemotherapy [6].
Its efficacy in relieving chemotherapy-induced nausea was proven in a randomized clinical trial involving 744 cancer patients [7].
Patients were given ginger in varying dosages or a placebo twice a day for six days before the chemotherapy treatment [7].
Results showed that those who received ginger treatment did not experience any nausea after the chemotherapy session [7].
To use ginger oil for nausea relief, pour five drops of ginger oil on your handkerchief. Inhale the scent for a few seconds.
You may also try adding a few drops on your forehead. Massage gently.
Do this a few times a day until nausea is reduced.
RELATED: 10 Health Benefits of Ginger Oil That You Should Know About
2. Peppermint Oil
Peppermint oil has long been used as a treatment for many types of digestive disorders [8].
In fact, for many, it is a go-to solution for irritable bowel syndrome [8].
Experts have found that it can also help treat nausea and vomiting caused by different factors.
In a study conducted by Iranian researchers, cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy sessions were given either peppermint oil or a placebo [9].
Findings revealed the significant reduction in frequency and intensity of nausea and vomiting in the group that received peppermint oil [9].
It was concluded that peppermint oil is a safe and cost-effective antiemetic remedy for cancer patients [9].
Similar findings were found in a study featured in the Journal of Holistic Nursing which involved 35 patients suffering from post-operative nausea [10].
It was discovered that those who inhaled peppermint oil had fewer nausea episodes than those who were made to use a placebo [10].
Use this remedy by blending three drops of peppermint oil and four drops of lavender oil. Add this oil blend to one bowl of hot water. Inhale the steam several times a day until condition improves.
3. Chamomile Oil
There are two primary types of chamomile: German chamomile and Roman chamomile [11].
Both are known for their high concentration of terpenoids and flavonoids, which are both beneficial to one’s health [11].
One of its profound effects on the body is relieving nausea.
In a clinical trial involving 65 women diagnosed with breast cancer, half of the participants were given ginger extract while the other received chamomile extract twice a day [12].
It was found that there was no significant difference between the two groups regarding frequency [12].
Researchers concluded that both were highly effective in reducing chemotherapy-induced nausea [12].
Another study probed the efficacy of chamomile and Mefenamic acid in treating nausea related to premenstrual syndrome (PMS) [13].
The study involved 90 students who suffer from symptoms of PMS, one of which is nausea [13].
The participants were asked to use either chamomile or Mefenamic acid three times a day [13].
According to the results, chamomile was more effective than Mefenamic acid in reducing nausea, pain and other symptoms [13].
Relieve yourself of nausea by blending five drops of chamomile oil and one teaspoon almond oil. Apply this mixture to your temples or forehead. Massage for five to 10 minutes. Repeat several times a day until nausea goes away.
4. Lavender Oil
Many would agree that lavender oil is one of the world’s most popular essential oils.
It’s for a very good reason.
This oil is widely recognized for its many benefits, which include treating insomnia, relieving pain, and reducing stress, among many others.
For those who suffer from nausea, this could also be a reliable remedy.
In 2006, researchers from the New York University analyzed the effects of lavender oil aromatherapy for postoperative discomfort in 50 patients [14].
Half of the patients were asked to use after the surgery supplemental oxygen added with 2 percent lavender oil [14].
The other half received supplemental oxygen with no lavender oil [14].
Findings showed that postoperative symptoms such as pain and nausea were relieved among those who used lavender oil [14].
This oil is also noted for its ability to relieve a migraine headache, which usually causes nausea [15].
To feel better, mix 10 drops of lavender oil and one tablespoon of jojoba oil. Apply this combination to your temples, forehead, neck, and shoulders. Massage these areas for five to 10 minutes.
RELATED:15 Essential Oils for Focus, Concentration & Attention
5. Nutmeg Oil
Many benefits have been associated with the use of nutmeg.
Nutmeg comes from an evergreen tree known as Myristica fragrans Houtt, which is also known to produce another type of spice called mace [16].
The nutmeg seed has been confirmed to contain many beneficial compounds such as camphene, limonene, myrcene, sabinene, pinenes and other types of terpene hydrocarbons [16].
It’s no surprise that its oil extract has many positive effects on the human health [16].
Among its many curative properties is its ability to alleviate nausea [16].
This was proven in a 2009 study that can be found in the ARBS Annual Review of Biomedical Sciences [16].
Use this remedy to relieve your nausea. Mix three drops of nutmeg oil and one bowl of cold water. Soak your towel in the cold water and squeeze to get rid of excess. Put the towel on your forehead. Inhale the scent. Repeat remedy two to three times a day until you feel better.
6. Fennel Oil
Many people use fennel oil to relieve inflammation, respiratory ailments, and hypertension.
In the Iranian folk medicine, this is considered a highly effective treatment due to its host of curative properties, which include antimicrobial, antioxidant, gastroprotective, and anti-inflammatory properties, among others [17].
If you’re feeling uncomfortable due to nausea, you can use fennel oil to feel better.
In a 2003 study published in the International Journal of Gynecology & Obstetrics, researchers enrolled 30 women with cases of mild dysmenorrhea [18].
In the first treatment cycle, the patients were not given any medication [18].
In the second cycle, they were asked to take mefenamic acid, and in the third cycle, they were given fennel extract [18].
It was found that fennel reduced nausea by 63 percent and vomiting by 23 percent [18].
Fennel also proved effective in minimizing other PMS symptoms such as headache, fatigue, and pain [18].
Only five patients could not tolerate the fennel treatment because of the scent [18].
It’s also important to know that fennel is not recommended for pregnant women as it may have negative effects on the pregnancy due to its high estrogenic activity [19].
Alleviate nausea with fennel and olive oil. First, warm the olive oil in a pan over low heat. Let cool a little, then add the fennel oil. Massage oil blend on temples and forehead. Let it sit for 10 to 15 minutes while inhaling the scent. Repeat twice or thrice a day.
RELATED: 14 Benefits of Fennel Tea You Don’t Want to Miss Out on
7. Anise Seed Oil
Another essential oil that you should try for relieving nausea is anise seed oil.
Anise seed oil comes from a plant that is widely recognized for its many beneficial compounds.
It’s no wonder that this popular folk remedy works effective as a digestive, stimulant, antiseptic, antibacterial and expectorant, among others.
Among its many applications in the traditional medicine are as a carminative, digestive, stimulant, expectorant, antiseptic and antispasmodic.
Its positive effects on patients suffering from nausea were documented in a 2005 study [20].
Anise seed oil was one of the key ingredients in a synergistic aromatherapy blend, which proved effective in helping patients in the hospital feel better [20].
To use this remedy, you need to combine five drops of anise seed oil, five drops of chamomile oil, two drops of fennel oil and two drops of peppermint oil. Add the oil blend to a bowl of hot water. Lean closely to the hot bowl, but be careful. Inhale the steam. Do this several times a day until nausea is relieved.
8. Lemon Balm Oil
Most people love using lemon balm oil for its soothing properties.
Lemon balm oil, which comes from a perennial plant from the mint family, is a go-to solution for stress and other issues [21].
It is also used to treatment menstrual pain, stomach pain, bloating, vomiting, toothache and headache [21].
With its calming properties, lemon balm can be an effective solution for nausea.
It can relieve discomfort and alleviate anxiety due to the condition.
Alleviate nausea by adding 20 drops of lemon balm oil to your bath water. Soak in the bath for 30 minutes. Do this once or twice a day every day for one to two weeks.
9. Lemon Oil
Many confuse lemon oil with lemon balm oil, but the fact is, the two are different.
When it comes to treating nausea, both are highly effective.
More than 100 pregnant women participated in a study that can be found in the Iranian Red Crescent Medical Journal [22].
The participants were asked to inhale either lemon oil or a placebo each time they experienced nausea as part of morning sickness [22].
It was illustrated in the results that the women who inhaled lemon oil felt instant relief from nausea, vomiting, and retching [22].
Aside from its effectiveness, researchers also noted of the safety of this essential oil [22].
As long as used in the recommended dosage, it can reduce the severity of nausea without causing harm to the unborn fetus [22].
Treat nausea by adding five drops of lemon oil to your handkerchief. Inhale the scent each time you feel nauseous.
RELATED: 12 Home Remedies for Vomiting To Give You Instant Relief
10. Bergamot Oil
The list won’t be complete without bergamot oil.
This essential oil has been used since the ancient times to fight a wide range of illnesses and infections.
It’s considered in many parts of the world as a potent medicine oil.
In South Korea, a team of researchers investigated the effects of bergamot and peppermint oils in relieving discomfort among 30 cancer patients [23].
The participants were divided into two groups, the first of which received the aromatherapy blend and the second was not given any form of treatment [23].
By the end of the trial, it was proven that bergamot and peppermint worked in reducing the intensity of chemotherapy-induced nausea [23].
To use this remedy, combine five drops of bergamot oil, five drops of peppermint oil and one teaspoon of olive oil. Massage the mixture on your forehead, shoulders, and neck. Repeat technique two to three times a day.
Bottom Line
Essential oils work wonders in relieving nausea due to various causes.
It can alleviate discomfort among those undergoing chemotherapy or those who have undergone surgery.
Essential oils can also minimize nausea among pregnant women and women suffering from premenstrual syndrome.
Let us know which of the essential oils work the best for you. Write in the comment section.
READ NEXT: 11+ Remedies to Get Rid of Morning Sickness
Pin10
Share
Tweet
10 Shares
Previous Post
Honey and Cinnamon for Weight Loss : 10 Reasons to Try !
Next Post
Coconut Oil for Sunburn : 11 Reasons Why it Works
Naturally Daily Team
Naturally Daily Team is a group of expert researchers, writers, editors, and medical reviewers . We create high quality contents on natural health and wellness topics. You can learn more about us in our "Meet the Team" page.
Related Posts
Remedies
Pumpkin Seed Oil for Hair Fall Control: Does It Actually Work?
by Naturally Daily Team
April 16, 2019
0
Pumpkin seed oil is a vegetable oil that has gained popularity because of its healthy fats and benefits. Also known...
Read more
Remedies
How to get Coconut Oil Out of Hair
by Naturally Daily Team
April 16, 2019
0
Massaging your scalp with coconut oil is an effective method to have healthy and lustrous hair. Coconut oil contains...
Read more
Remedies
7 Substitutes for Rice Vinegar: Which One to Choose?
by Naturally Daily Team
April 2, 2019
0
Rice vinegar is a staple ingredient in Asian cuisine. It is a type of vinegar made from fermented rice. There...
Read more
Remedies
How to Get Rid of a Bruise Fast: 15 Home Remedies and Tips
by Naturally Daily Team
April 2, 2019
0
Bruises are often the results of injury or nutrient deficiencies. Skin injuries cause breaking down of blood vessels of the...
Read more
Beauty
15 Tamanu Oil Benefits and Uses with Potential Side Effects
by Naturally Daily Team
April 1, 2019
0
What is Tamanu Oil? Tamanu oil comes from the nut-like fruits of Tamanu or Calophyllum inophyllum tree. This leafy, 25-30...
Read more
Next Post
Coconut Oil for Sunburn : 11 Reasons Why it Works
Canola vs. Vegetable Oil: Which One Will You Choose?
Baking Soda for Acne: 12 Easy Ways You Can Use
RELATED
Essential Oil
Remedies
Essential Oils for OCD: Do They Really Work?
April 18, 2019
7 Sake Substitutes for Cooking That You Can Try
April 18, 2019
Essential Oils for Fibroids: Are They Safe?
April 17, 2019
Tsuga Essential Oil: 8 Potential Benefits, Uses, and Side Effects
April 17, 2019
Pumpkin Seed Oil for Hair Fall Control: Does It Actually Work?
April 16, 2019
How to get Coconut Oil Out of Hair
April 16, 2019
8 Ghee Substitutes for Frying, Roasting, & Many More
April 15, 2019
Essential Oils for Wasp Sting: How Effective?
April 15, 2019
Essential Oils for Bone Spurs: Choose The Right One for You
April 15, 2019
Blue Tansy Essential Oil: Benefits, Uses, & Side Effects
April 14, 2019
About
Privacy & Policy
Medical Disclaimer
Affiliate Disclosure
Terms and Conditions
Contact
© 2016 - 2018 Naturally Daily LLC. All rights reserved.
Naturally Daily does not provide medical advice or treatment. See Medical Disclaimer.
We provide trustworthy natural health, wellness and beauty contents for you. Reviewed by doctors, medical professionals, certified nutritionists, certified aromatherapist, and certified dietitian. Please talk to your doctor for treatment or diagnosis.
Owned and managed by Dot Digital Publishing LLC.
Home
Essential Oil
Food
Remedies
© 2016 - 2018 Naturally Daily LLC. All rights reserved.
Naturally Daily does not provide medical advice or treatment. See Medical Disclaimer.
We provide trustworthy natural health, wellness and beauty contents for you. Reviewed by doctors, medical professionals, certified nutritionists, certified aromatherapist, and certified dietitian. Please talk to your doctor for treatment or diagnosis.
Owned and managed by Dot Digital Publishing LLC.