Hydroquinone Consumer Warning
Skip to content
Menu
Home
Skin Lightening
Top Skin Lightening Products
How to Lighten Skin
Natural Skin Lighteners
Intimate Lightening
Vaginal Bleaching
Anal Bleaching
Anal Bleaching At Home
Porn Stars and Anal Bleaching
Underarm Whitening
Intimate Lightening Cream
Amaira Intimate Lightening Serum Review
Best Dark Spot Corrector
Melasma Treatment
Age Spots
Skin Lightening for Black Skin
Hydroquinone Consumer Warning
Stretch Marks
Stretch Marks – Prevention and Treatment
Amaira Advanced Scar Vanishing Cream Review
Microdermabrasion
Top Portable Microdermabrasion Machines
Rejuvaderm MD Review
Kendal 2 in 1 System Review
Trophy Skin Review
Skin Pigmentation
Melanin
Hyperpigmentation
What is Hyperpigmentation?
Azelaic Acid Treatments
Freckle Tattoos
Melanocytes
Videos
Skin Lightening Videos
Scar Lightening Videos
Microdermabrasion Videos
Stretch Mark Videos
Vaginal Lightening Videos
Anal Bleaching Videos
Amaira Customer Reviews
Melasma Videos
Vintage Skin Care Videos
Skin Pigmentation Videos
Hyperpigmentation Videos
Hydroquinone Consumer Warning
Tweet
Throughout this website, I have emphasized the importance of not using skin lightening creams that contain hydorquinone. There is a lot of research that has shown that the use of hydroquinone presents a number of health concerns.
In the United States, you cannot buy skin creams that contain certain levels of hydroquinone over the counter. Creams with higher concentration can only be purchased by prescription. This, like most medications, reduces that potential for overuse and over exposure to the dangerous ingredient.
Unfortunately, you can purchase creams with low levels of hydorquinone, but, as I have asked elsewhere, why would you? The reason is simple. It is an effective product. It is very effective in lightening your skin. But to me, the health risks just are not worth it. Especially since there are other options out there with more natural ingredients that are not harmful.
Of course, there is still a market for creams that contain hydroquinone, even in markets like Europe, where hydroquinone has been a banned substance since 2001. To me that is a big eye-opener. If the substance is banned in Europe, it is definitely something that should be avoided.
Europe always seems to be little more in advanced in these types of matters. Their regulations don’t seem to be as influenced by big money interests, like Big Pharma, that you see in the United States. Regulators in Europe recognize the health threat that hydroquinone presents to its citizens and called for an all out ban.
However, that doesn’t stop European retailers from selling skin lightening creams with hydroquinone. As you can see in this BBC London new coverage there are shops that sell creams with hydroquinone, but which are not labeled with the harmful ingredient. Even repeat offenders. Check it out:
This news coverage clearly shows the danger to the public. There are products on the market that don’t list all the ingredients and retailer that are willing to sell those products. Consumers are the targets and the health risks are high. If you are looking for a skin lightening cream, be careful of your selection.
Our Top Recommended Skin Lightening Cream
Amaira
Amaira (My #1 Recommendation) – Amaira Natural Skin Care is a US based company that specializes in a variety of natural topical application products for the following uses: lightening dark areas the skin, reducing scars, reducing dark eye circles, and restoring vaginal strength and tightness. Their Natural Lightening Serum is designed for lightening dark areas and spots of skin and is sensitive enough to be used for intimate lightening.
Amaira Natural Lightening Serum contains 4 different skin lightening ingredients: Kojic Acid, Licorice Extract, Mulberry Extract, and Bearberry Extract.
The product comes in an “airless” bottle and is manufactured in the United States in an FDA registered facility in Newport Beach, California.
Currently, single bottles are $41.99 (normally $66.95) and three bottles cost $71.99 (normally $196.85). These are great prices for a superior product.
What about ordering two bottles? Right now, instead of offering a two bottle discount, Amaira is offering a subscription option. If you subscribe for $41.99 per month, you will receive a single bottle of Amaira Natural Lightening Serum and a FREE BOTTLE (every month) of their new product – Amaira Eye Illuminating Serum that diminishes dark eye circles and crow feet. This is a great deal and a great way to keep you looking your best.
It is recommended to take advantage of the multi-bottle discount, especially since you essentially get a free bottle if you order the 3 bottle deal. If this product works for you, which is more than likely, you will be purchasing more than one bottle. Might as well save a bit of money.
CLICK FOR THE BEST PRICE ON AMAIRA
The price and product is backed by a 60 day refund policy. This duration is plenty of time to test the product for effectiveness on your skin type.
Amaira is now featuring FREE DOMESTIC SHIPPING on all orders in the United States that are placed through their website.
Hydroquinone Consumer Warning was last modified: June 3rd, 2018 by Skin Discoloration Solutions
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Tweet
2
Skin Discoloration Solutions
View all posts by Skin Discoloration Solutions →
Post navigation
Older post
Stretch Marks – Prevention and Treatment
Newer post
My Opinion on Intimate Lightening
You might also like
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Hello. My name is Nat. I have learned a lot about skin discoloration and treatment options over the past few years. I am so excited to share my knowledge with you. I hope you find what you are looking for. Enjoy and thanks for visiting.
Like My Page on Facebook
Skin Discoloration Solutions
About
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Terms
Contact
Copyright © 2017 Skin Discoloration Solutions All Rights Reserved.