Pink Himalayan Salt and the Keto Diet - | Lori Ballen Keto Diet Coach 2019
Keto Diet Plan
How To Do The Keto Diet Plan
Email
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
YouTube
Keto Diet Explained
FAQ’s
Recipes
Keto Diet For Beginners Kit
Home » Pink Himalayan Salt and the Keto Diet
May 8, 2018 By Lori Ballen Keto Coach 5 Comments
Pink Himalayan Salt and the Keto Diet
Sharing is caring!
81shares
Share51
Tweet
Pin30
After processing, many foods do not only lose their dietary values but might also become harmful. Pink Himalayan Salt is a natural matter that is collected from the foothills of the Himalayan Mountains.
This salt is also a great substitute in the Keto Diet to the refined table-salt – the white stuff that hides in the shaker near the ingredients in your pantry.
Quick Links
Video
Pink Himalayan Salt and The Keto Diet
Does the Body Need Salt?
How is pink salt different?
What are the benefits of pink salt?
Is Himalayan salt good for you?
Himalayan pink salt nutrition facts
Sole Water Recipe
Get a Keto Coach
Video
Sodium intake is one thing that can help in preventing the Keto Flu.
Get Your Easy and Affordable Keto Course – Instantly
Your body utilizes up lots of water to wash off excess sodium in the body, which might lead to dehydration. If one gets dehydrated enough, you can develop headaches, constipation, dizziness or even kidney stones.
Pink Himalayan Salt and The Keto Diet
However, all this can be avoided with the Himalayan salt which is about 85 percent sodium chloride and the other 15 percent being calcium, magnesium, potassium, and bicarbonate. The ketogenic diet eradicates carbohydrate-rich foods, substituting them with food rich in proteins and fats.
The deficiency of carbohydrates compels the body to burn fat for energy, changing some to ketones, which fuel the brain. The cut down is commonly put into practice by health-care experts to alleviate the incidence of epileptic attacks in patients and people who want lose weight.
Ensuring pink Himalayan Salt intake is enough during a ketogenic diet may help reduce harmful effects in your body.
There are lots of benefits in the pink Himalayan salt which is also known as HPS (Himalayan Pink Salt) over its shop-purchased counterpart.
Go to top
Does the Body Need Salt?
Salt has for a long time been a prized substance for thousands of years by all continents and cultures. Over the last few decades, surplus sodium and salt intake have been held liable for a plethora of severe health conditions that plague the whole world, such as hypertension, stroke and heart disease.
The reason why the body requires salt is that each cell contains great amounts of salt and it is the generic name for “ions” – charged particles – and nearly all of the cells in the human body, in reality, all of the cells in our bodies, are electrical. In other terms, they drive these ions from one section of their cell membrane, which is an oily or lipid substance and hence an insulator.
They impel ions from one part of that membrane to the other, and that implies there is an electrical potential difference over the layer of the cell and this signifies that this incline – the electrical difference – can be employed by the cell to do other kinds of work. Therefore cells, for example, posses’ channels via which sodium can gush into the cell, and it comes down its potential difference in a concentration gradient, and the consequence is that it can be employed to pull in glucose simultaneously. Hence sugars can enter the cells.
Therefore we require salts in the body, and those salts include important minerals such as calcium to make the bones strong however we also lose salts all the time we visit the toilet, for instance, we lose phosphates and calcium.
Go to top
How is pink salt different?
For those who have heard about the Himalayan salt, they may be wondering why health fanatics are advocating for it. People get the Himalayan salt, also called pink rock salt, from the Pakistani salt mines about 300 kilometers (186 miles) from the Himalayas.
The pink colors in the rocks stem from iron oxide deposits or rust in the mountains. It is bragged about as having health advantages as the purest salt on the planet.
As with all types of salt, the Himalayan rock salt is most generally used for cooking. However, apart from enhancing food flavor, the pink salt assists increase energy, improve adrenal function and relieve migraines.
As mentioned above, unprocessed salt contains several other trace minerals that are needed for health. Things like calcium, magnesium, and iodine are just a few of these examples.
Perhaps this is why new studies suggest consuming too little salt is a greater risk to health. So, when you are eating unprocessed foodstuffs, you are adding tiny amounts of unprocessed salt to your diet without risking your health. In its place, natural salt offers your body with some minerals fundamental to organ function.
The main thing when it comes to nutritional salt is that your source matters. Numerous manufacturers of table salt chemically create and strip essential minerals out of the final product.
Owing to this processed salt is deemed as unhealthy. Salt obtained from natural sources includes several trace elements essential to our health. This implies salt from nature is better for our health.
Go to top
I’m not a big meat eater. I have to be very purposeful about my protein. I eat meat, nuts, and dairy. I also do a shake now every day that includes protein and collagen peptides.
Lori Ballen Keto Coach
What are the benefits of pink salt?
With the delicate pink, rose-like shade, the Himalayan salt is visually unique and prized for its alleged dietary profile as it comes with a high number of necessary minerals. Himalayan pink salt has been used to assist in detoxifying the body as a kind of a brine treatment.
Most frequently conducted in the form of a shower, brine baths assert to detoxify your body via osmosis. As the sodium combines the water to the outer skin layer moisture is preserved. Toxins are discharged from the body, while the skin soaks ups the healthy minerals from sodium into the body.
It is suggested that the brine bath is done as close as probable to standard body temperature that is approximately 97 degrees Fahrenheit and that for 26 to 32 gallons of water 2.2 lbs of Himalayan salt should be used.
As a natural sodium source, Himalayan salt offers a vital mineral for healthy bodily functions. Sodium helps to control the blood volume and consequently blood pressure, on top of helping out to control heart functions and muscle contractions. Sodium is naturally found in several foods; however, it can also be eaten as added salt, like the case of the pink Himalayan salt.
The daily suggested amount of sodium to be consumed is between 1500 mg to 2300 mg, for women and men between the age groups of 9 and 50. Some Ketoans digest as much as 3500 mg on their ketogenic diet.
Pink salt is widely hyped for its mineral content, comprising a total of 84 minerals. Besides sodium, the pink Himalayan salt is somewhat high in magnesium, iron, phosphorus, potassium, chloride, and calcium. It also has traces of fluoride, iodine, boron, selenium, copper, and zinc all of which are essential for physical health.
As it occurs naturally, pink salt has all these minerals with no refinement or chemical processing. Because it is naturally harvested, the benefits of the Himalayan salt are available in spite of what form the salt is eaten as. Pink salt is most generally found as fine grains, coarse grains or in large blocks which can be employed as serving platters that precisely “season” your food.
Get Grass Feed Meat Delivered To Your Door – Get Deals
Go to top
Is Himalayan salt good for you?
At the outset, what makes Himalayan pink salt so remarkable? Approximately 200 million years ago, the Earth had many crystallized sea salt beds that were covered with lava. Since this salt was afterward enveloped in ice and snow for millennia, it was sheltered from present-day pollution and conserved in an intact, pristine atmosphere.
Through the years, salt has become linked and demonized to some chronic ailments. However, it is not that the salt is that bad; it is what people do to it that roots all these harms! In its pure form salt contains minerals that are necessary to health.
However, natural salt, for example, pink Himalayan salt, has nothing to do with the processed cooking and table salt that has had such a bad reputation—and for good rationale! You can consume Himalayan salt without disquieting about distracting your fluid balance or worsening high blood pressure.
Himalayan salt has the same 84 trace elements and minerals that are found in our bodies, some of which include sodium chloride, calcium, magnesium, and potassium. When ingesting this salt, you are in fact receiving less sodium intake in every serving than in regular table salt since it is less processed and the pieces are larger.
Hence Himalayan salt has a less sodium level per serving as the flakes or crystals take up less room than the extremely refined variety of table salt.
Another important factor about this salt is that owing to its matchless cellular structure; it amasses vibrational energy. The minerals contained in this salt exist in a colloidal form, which implies that they are tiny enough for the cells to absorb effortlessly. Due to the pristine environment that the Himalayan salt has been stored in, it is classified among the purest salt available in our days.
Go to top
Himalayan pink salt nutrition facts
You might have heard of Himalayan pink salt however you have heard of Himalayan crystal salt, rock salt, pink salt; they are all akin. Often at times, these names are just altered for branding.
Just ensure when you buy the salt, there are no added colors or ingredients. As you are perhaps already aware, various minerals have diverse chemical components- all minerals are made up of a mixture of ions.
What makes Himalayan pink salt nutrition facts so attractive is that since it contains 84 different minerals that are naturally-occurring, a lot of which are necessary for maintaining the best possible health.
Now that you are aware of the truth about the topic is that lots of individual’s perception of salt are completely mistaken. Salt (in the right form) is not only good for you; however, it is, in fact, essential for the body to function correctly. From the Himalayan salt nutrition facts, it is pure- free from pollutants and made up of 84 minerals that naturally occur in the human body.
Others Enjoy Shopping Perfect Keto Supplements
Go to top
Sole Water Recipe
When water and original Himalayan Crystal Stones for the Sole mix, the two individual ions of chloride and sodium, plus the extra ions from the other 82 minerals found in the salts’ crystalline structure, are freed into the water creating a solution of rigorous mineral energy.
When Sole is added to about 8 ounces of water and drank these electrical charges – or ions are straight away absorbed, charging the body with energy.
The Sole as well enhances the 8 ounces structure of water that is added to it. Therefore, when you consume that water, the body absorbs up to twice the amount of water into your body cells. Akin to everything else in life quality is regularly more imperative than quantity – and when it comes to water, it should not be different.
Ingredients:
A Glass Jar
A plastic lid which is non-metallic
Filtered water
1-2 cups of pink Himalayan Salt
Instructions:
Fill the jar approximately 1/4 of the way with pink Himalayan Salt.
Add the filtered water to fill your jar, leaving around one inch at the top.
Put on your plastic lid and gently shake the jar.
Leave it overnight to allow the salt to dissolve.
The next day, if there is some salt at the base of your jar, the water has immersed its maximum salt amount, and the Sole is ready for usage.
But if all of the salt is immersed, add more salt and keep on doing so each day until there are some remains. This implies that the water is completely saturated with the pink salt.
Go to top
Get a Keto Coach
Keto Coach
Lori Ballen is a Certified Ketogenic Lifestyle Coach. Having shed 43 pounds in just her few months on the Keto way of eating, Lori became passionate about helping others achieve better health and weight loss through living in Ketosis.
She offers Keto systems such as grocery lists, meals, guides, macro calculators, weight tracking and more in her Keto Coach Group Program.
Consumption of Healthy Salts
Salt is regarded as an indispensable constituent of good health, and it has in the past been an important component of human civilization. True salt has numerous trace elements and minerals that are fundamental to a healthy functioning body.
Dejectedly, the white matter in most individual salt shakers has been refined into something rather different. Regardless of all of these health hazards of sodium chloride, you still benefit from natural salt in your diet. Consumed in control, it ought to be a great source of trace minerals that are essential to a well working body.
However, because the human race has contaminated the oceans to the extent that there is some apprehension about pollutants, the healthiest type of salt shuns this subject completely. This is because it was laid down many millions of years ago while the oceans were uncontaminated by man.
Sharing is caring!
81shares
Share51
Tweet
Pin30
Summary
Article Name
What are the Benefits of Pink Himalayan Salt
Description
After processing, many foods do not only lose their dietary values but might also become harmful. Pink Himalayan Salt is a natural matter that is collected from the foothills of the Himalayan Mountains. This salt is also a great substitute in the Keto Diet to the refined table-salt – the white stuff that hides in the shaker near the ingredients in your pantry.
Author
Lori Ballen
Publisher Name
KetoDays.com
Publisher Logo
Lori Ballen
Lori Ballen, who shed 45 pounds herself in 4 months on the Ketogenic Diet, is a Keto Coach helping others like her get healthy, feel younger, and lose weight. Read More…
The information provided by KetoDays.com is not intended to replace the opinions of a professional. All articles provided are done via research so that you have more information on the topics of weight loss, diets, supplements, and more. We are not doctors and recommend consulting with your doctor before starting a new diet, supplement or if you have any questions regarding a medical condition.
❮❮ Previous Post
Next Post ❯ ❯
Comments
Lukasz Jedrak says
July 12, 2018 at 10:56 am
So how much pink salt do I need to consume on Keto diet everyday in Table Spoon or Tea Spoon amount?
Reply
Lori Ballen Keto Coach says
July 21, 2018 at 1:14 pm
Pink Himalayan salt has about 1700 mg of sodium per teaspoon. The Keto Diet suggestion is that you consume somewhere around 2000 to 4000 mg of sodium per day. When you can get these in whole foods, that’s great. You can also add the electrolytes that have sodium as well as using Sole water with your pink salt.
Reply
Lori Ballen Keto Coach says
August 2, 2018 at 5:33 am
Up to you and how much sodium you need. I do a full tablespoon. A Teaspoon is going to get you around 450 mg and a tablespoon would be closer to 1500 mg.
Reply
Emily Everson says
November 25, 2018 at 9:49 pm
Hi Lori, how do you take the tablespoon of sodium?
Reply
Lori Ballen Keto Coach says
December 22, 2018 at 8:09 pm
add it to a glass of regular water
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Lori’s Journey
Lori shed 50 pounds in 6 months with the Keto diet. Learn More
Become a Member
Click Here to get started and become a member today!
Contact Us
Message Us
Email Us
Copyright © KetoDays | Privacy Policy | Disclosure: Lori Ballen is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. Lori has affiliate relationships with other companies, people and brands and when you click a link, she and her companies may receive a direct benefit.
WordPress Web Design by Ballen Brands
51
30
0