Researchers find link between blueberries, grapes and apples and reduced risk of type 2 diabetes | | Bradenton East Integrative Medicine
Call Us Today! 941-727-1243
Home
Optimizing Your Visit
News
Patient Portal
About
FAQs
Meet Our Staff
Testimonials
Inhouse Affiliate Providers
Services
Family Practice
Immunizations
Medicare Wellness Visits
Sleep Apnea / Home Sleep Study
Functional Medicine
Bioidentical Hormones
Cutting Edge Lab Tests
HeartMath
IV Therapy
Nutrigenomic (DNA) Testing
Medical Cannabis
MonaLisa Touch Feminine Rejuvenation
Nutritional Counseling & Weight Loss
Physician Supervised Weight Loss
HCG FAQs
Massage
Myofascial Release Therapy
Ace Medicupping
Acupuncture
Integrative Fertility Program
Hair & Skin Restoration
Hair Restoration
Organic Facials
PRP Facials
Skin Restoration
Products
All Products
BEIM Formula RX
Contact
Researchers find link between blueberries, grapes and apples and reduced risk of type 2 diabetes
Home/Uncategorized/Researchers find link between blueberries, grapes and apples and reduced risk of type 2 diabetes
Previous	Next
Researchers find link between blueberries, grapes and apples and reduced risk of type 2 diabetes
Eating more whole fruits, particularly blueberries, grapes and apples, is associated with a lower risk of type 2 diabetes, with greater fruit juice consumption having an adverse effect, a paper published today on bmj.com suggests.
Increasing fruit consumption has been recommended for the prevention of many chronic diseases, including type 2 diabetes. However, studies have generated some mixed results.
Researchers from the UK, USA and Singapore therefore looked to examine the association of individual fruit consumption in relation to type 2 diabetes risk. Data were used from three prospective cohort studies among US adults: the Nurses’ Health Study (NHS 1984 – 2008), the Nurses’ Health Study II (NHS II 1991-2009) and the Health Professionals Follow-up Study (HPFS 1986 – 2008).
There were 187,382 participants totalling 3,464,641 years of follow-up. The study included both men and women (151,209 women and 36,173 men). Participants who reported a diagnosis of diabetes, cardiovascular disease or cancer at baseline were excluded.
Ten individual fruits were used in the study: grapes or raisins; peaches, plums or apricots; prunes; bananas; cantaloupe; apples or pears; oranges; grapefruit; strawberries; blueberries. Fruit juice included apple; orange; grapefruit and other fruit juices. Food frequency questionnaires were used every four years to assess participants’ habitual diet, asking how often, on average, they consumed each food in a standard portion size. Participants could choose from nine possible responses, ranging from “never, or less than once per month” to “six or more times per day”.
Information was gathered on participants’ body height and weight, cigarette smoking, physical activity, multivitamin use and family history of diabetes. Information for women was collected on menopausal status, post-menopausal hormone use and oral contraceptive use.
Results showed that 12,198 out of 187,382 (6.5%) participants developed diabetes.
Total whole fruit consumption correlated positively with age, physical activity, multivitamin use, total energy intake and fruit juice consumption. Three servings per week of blueberries; grapes and raisins; apples and pears significantly reduced the risk of type 2 diabetes.
In contrast, greater consumption of fruit juice was associated with increased type 2 diabetes risk. Substitution of whole fruits for fruit juice was associated with a lower risk, except strawberries and cantaloupe melon.
Results showed that 12,198 out of 187,382 participants developed diabetes so the overall risk in the populations studied over many years was 6.5%. Among those who had three servings per week of individual whole fruits rather than fruit juice the overall risk was itself reduced by 7%.
Replacing three servings per week of fruit juice with individual whole fruits reduced the risk of type 2 diabetes by 7%.
The researchers conclude that there is a significant difference in the associations between individual fruits and the risk of type 2 diabetes and that greater consumption of specific whole fruits “particularly blueberries, grapes and apples was significantly associated with lower type 2 diabetes risk whereas greater fruit juice consumption was associated with a higher risk”. They say the results support recommendations to increase the consumption of a variety of whole fruits as a measure for diabetes prevention.
http://www.bmj.com/content/347/bmj.f5001
By admin| 2013-08-30T15:19:23-04:00	August 30th, 2013|Uncategorized|0 Comments
Share This Story, Choose Your Platform!
FacebookTwitterLinkedinRedditTumblrGoogle+PinterestVkEmail
About the Author: admin
Related Posts
Permalink
Stroke? Heart Disease? Treat it with a dose of Exercise!
Leave A Comment Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
How to Reach Us
8614 East State Road 70, Suite 200
Bradenton, FL 34202
Phone: (941) 727-1243
Fax: (941) 751-9039
Hours
Monday - Friday: 8:30 - 5:00
Closed for Lunch: 12:00 - 1:00
**Please do not email us about your personal health. If you need to discuss your health or treatment, please call the office at the number above.
Connect With Us
Disclaimer
While we only use real patient testimonials throughout our website, it is important to note that results may vary for each patient.
Important Links
Home
Optimizing Your Visit
News
Patient Portal
Our Location
Massage Therapy License #MM2552
Kahla Zemis, LE, LMT License #MA73603
Copyright 2012 - 2018 Bradenton East Integrative Medicine | All Rights Reserved | Powered by ClickFirst Marketing