shopspaViolet is Serious Skin Care, Serious Fun: What is all the Hype with Hydroquinone ?
shopspaViolet is Serious Skin Care, Serious Fun
www.shopspaViolet.com is Serious Skin Care, Serious Fun. We are Authorized retailers for Blinc, ColoreScience, Clarisonic, EltaMD, Revision, Skinceuticals, Exuviance, Neostrata, Lilash, Lifeline, Green Heart Labs, and Oxygenetix
Skin Care Specials
Shop for Skin Care
Sunscreen
Moisturizers
Anti Aging Skincare
Eye Cream
Cleansers
Toners
Exfoliators
Skn Lightening
Thursday, February 13, 2014
What is all the Hype with Hydroquinone ?
The Skinny on Hydroquinone
Truth or Myth, is hydroquinone dangerous in cosmetics? In short we at spaViolet believe it to be safe and effective, with over 60 years approved by the FDA with a concentration of 2% or less. Extensive research has been done, with the FDA through all the research hasn't banned, does not rate it as carcinogenic and metabolizes well in humans, unlike some of the animals that were in studies. In fact the people that handle hydroquinone in their profession have less cancer. (1)
Hydroquinone is known as one of the most effective melanin inhibitors to aid in treatment for hyperpigmentation and skin lightening. Melasma, or unnatural darkening of the skin is created when melanin, the pigment in skin is overproduced, which in some cases can lead to melanoma, a skin cancer. The tyrosinase enzyme, it's activity produces the rate in which melanin is produced in the skin is inhibited with hydroquinone.
Over the counter concentrations of hydroquinone are .5% - 2%, while prescription strength is 4% leading to the most effective and quickest results at the higher concentration. To put this in perspective, a 12% concentration can stop melanin production altogether, as in properties of albinos. Skin lightening creams are very popular, selling more than 15 million annually with the most popularity in the asian culture.
As of now, the FDA has only approved hydroquinone as the only approved skin lightener. This should be reevaluated, as their are many other ingredients that lighten such as licorice extract, vitamin C, niacinamide, magnesium, Alpha Hydroxy Acids (AHA), arbutin, Phloretin, kojic acid, and azelaic acid. Other lighteners take on the term "brighteners" since the FDA doesn't recognize them as lighteners.
Why is Hydroquinone Harmful?
Hydroquinone has been known to cause ochronosis which is a bluish black discoloring of the skin, making it look dark and dead looking. This needs to be reevaluated however as over the past 60 years of use, only a small amount of this skin condition has shown up, mostly in South Africa. These products contained illegal ingredients such as mercury which could be the root cause instead of hydroquinone. Currently, hydroquinone is banned in the European Union, Japan and South Africa.
There are reports that hydroquinone is carcinogenic, found in a study when applied injected in large doses in rats. Metabolism of hydroquinone in rats is much different then humans, and with the extensive studies done, it has not been labeled as carcinogenic. No studies have shown that is has any carcinogens when applied topically, in fact hydroquinone is an antioxidant, although a synthetic one.
What to Look for When Buying Hydroquinone
Hydroquinone degrades fast when exposed to light and air. Make sure the product you have has a small opening and a good closure. The product should be not exposed to light with it's packaging. When using, make sure to apply sunscreen as inhibiting melanin also reduces your protective barrier in your skin to UV rays. Sometimes hydroquinone creams can cause irritation and dermatitis, which is usually from the Vitamin A or tretinoin added to it.
1 - Critical Reviews in Toxicology, May 1999, pages 283–330
Posted by Miss Violet at 9:32 AM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: hydroquinone, melanoma, melasma, ochronosis, skin cancer, skin lightening, tyrosinase
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Search This Blog
shopspaViolet Loves Our Fans!
Popular Posts
Lilash - How to Spot a Fake or Counterfeit Lilash
How to tell if a Lilash Product is Genuine Before we dive into this, let me first say, shopspaViolet has AUTHENTIC Lilash , and that i...
What is the Shelf Life of LiLash?
What is the Expiration Date on Lilash? The quick answer? 2 years unopened, an additional 1 year after opened for a total of three years. ...
Ugh my pores are too big, how do I shrink them ?
Large Pores Reduce Pore Size from Acne Scaring First of all contrary to urban legend pores do not open and close like a door. We d...
Is Nerium AD a scam or legit?
What is Nerium AD Being in the skin care industry we get information from friends and relatives of what they have heard is the next hot th...
Which to Choose? SkinCeuticals CE Ferulic or Phloretin CF ?
Phloretin CF vs. CE Ferulic SkinCeuticals makes two of the best Vitamin C serums on the market, Phloretin CF and CE Ferulic . They s...
The Differences of EltaMD Products
How are EltaMD Products Different EltaMD Products and How they are Different When you go into your Doctors office, you will most like...
Carrageenan Ingredient in Skincare
What is Carrageenan? Carrageenan, or Chondrus Crispus is a red seaweed found in the Atlantic Ocean. The seeweed must be boiled or have ...
Nectifirm Before and After
Revision Nectifirm Before and After In mid-February I began to apply Nectifirm on my stomach, the "damaged "results of a...
Revision Skincare Be Uplifted Gift Set
Revision Skincare Be Uplifted Gift Bag shopspaViolet introduces Revision's Be Uplifted Holiday Gift Set for 2014 . Great as a...
Oxygenetix Conceals and Heals Skin Imperfections
Oxgenetix All of the Colors of Oxygenetix The only breathable foundation, Oxygenetix heals skin with it's quality ingredients. Th...
Blog Archive
► 2017 (17)
► October (3)
► September (1)
► August (2)
► July (1)
► June (1)
► May (2)
► March (1)
► February (4)
► January (2)
► 2016 (34)
► December (4)
► November (2)
► October (1)
► September (3)
► August (3)
► July (1)
► June (6)
► May (5)
► March (3)
► February (3)
► January (3)
► 2015 (27)
► December (5)
► November (4)
► October (5)
► September (1)
► April (3)
► March (2)
► February (2)
► January (5)
▼ 2014 (90)
► November (2)
► September (4)
► August (2)
► July (10)
► June (5)
► May (13)
► April (9)
► March (12)
▼ February (17)
Oxygenetix Conceals and Heals Skin Imperfections
7 Beauty Myths That Are Just That , Myths
Why are SkinCeuticals products out of stock?
Let Us Break the Myths of Retinol
Post- inflammatory hyperpigmentation ( PIH )
Hiding Because of Acne?
What is all the Hype with Hydroquinone ?
Which to Choose? SkinCeuticals CE Ferulic or Phlor...
The Benefits of Phloretin
Is Your Acne Caused by Your Love for Chocolate?
Skincare Gift Certificates for Valentine's Day!
The Benefits of Ferulic with Vitamin C in Skincare...
Carrageenan Ingredient in Skincare
Sea Kelp Extract - The Benefits in Skincare from t...
The Benefits of Quercetin in Skin
shopspaViolet now carries Revision Intellishade Ma...
Lilash Demi, a Smaller Size, Great for Trying Out!...
► January (16)
► 2013 (54)
► December (10)
► November (12)
► October (26)
► June (2)
► January (4)
► 2012 (1)
► November (1)
Simple theme. Powered by Blogger.