::URINE THERAPY::
Enquiry Count 1526 Community Count 2706
Are you practising Urine Therapy?
Visitors 488535
Home
Benefits of Urine Therapy
Urine is a Universal Medicine
Ancient reference of U.T
About us
Method of treatment
Doctors and Scientists moral support
Case history of cancer patients
Case history of other ailments
Testimonials
Benefits of healthy diet
Urine Therapy is Ancient Yoga Practice
Contact Us/Enquiry form
Videos
Photo Gallery
Buy Books (English, Hindi, Tamil, Kannada)
BOOKS AVAILABLE IN
BOOK STORES
"NATURAL BENEFITS OF
URINE THERAPY" Books Available for Sale on the following Book Stores
Ganesh Phalak
Anand Book Depot
Jamner Road,
Bhusawal - 425201
Jalgaon District, Maharashtra
ganeshphalak74@gmail.com
Mob: +91 94227 78222
Shri Bijan Pati
BIDYASHREE
U/7, Sahitya Bhawan,
Janpath, Unit - 3,
Bhubaneswar - 751001
bidyashreebooks@gmail.com
Mob: +91 99370 17070
Raina Chowdhary
PICCADILLY Book Stall
Shop # 64 Shankar Market,
Con. Circus, NEW DELHI – 110001
piccadilly_bookstall@yahoo.co.in
Mob: +91 098737 67612
Phone: +9180 2341 3993,
+91 88260 84328
Manish Vaswani
Manish Plastic,
Near Puj Panchayat Hall,
ULHASNAGAR – 421004.
govedas@icloud.com
Mob: +91 98810 08000
Attention: Book Distributors / Stores
Buy Books on "Natural Benefits of Urine Therapy" Direct from Publisher: NOTION PRESS, Chennai Avail Dealers DISCOUNT with FREE Shipping In English, Hindi, Tamil and Kannada and SELL it to your Customers
More details contact -
JAGDISH R. BHURANI
Mob : +91 093428 72578
Recent Testimonials
Newspaper Articles
Recent Testimonials
Testimonials
HIV/AIDS, CANCER
Juices and Light Balanced Diet is "Healthy Diet." It is the Natural source of essential minerals, Proteins, rich Vitamins and important Antioxidants compounds.
Read more...
Benefits of Urine Therapy View the video of Raj News Interview
"Urine Therapy can Control / Cure
All Kinds of Chronic Diseases
The Healing Power is within us."
Millions of people are suffering from Chronic Disease. To-day mankind has been surrounded by innumerable incurable diseases and man is feeling utterly helpless and dejected.
According to the survey conducted by the Government people affected with these dreadful Diseases are increasing every year. Scientists and Medical Research Department despite their endeavor and continued Research have not been able to discover permanent cure for several diseases.
Nature has provided us with all Natural Amenities like Air, Water, Sun light etc., which are essential for our Body. It has also provided us with "DIVINE NECTAR" known as "URINE" which flows from our Body. Urine has a Natural Healing Power to Control and Cure all kinds of Diseases. Just like Nature has provided milk in the mother's breast for nourishment of the infant child, similarly Nature has also provided Urine in human body for preservations of their health and cure of various diseases.
"URINE THERAPY" is the Most Effective Natural Remedy and the safest method of treatment which does not have any side effects. It can Prevent, Control and Cure all kinds of chronic diseases such as Cancer, Diabetes, Blood Pressure HIV/AIDS, Kidney failure, Muscular Dystrophy, Arthritis, Psoriasis, Hair loss, Mental Retardation and Cerebral Palsy etc.
It can boost the Immune System, Improve Nervous Disorder, Dissolves and Removes the Toxins Accumulated in our body. It can Revive dead Tissues, Rebuilds Resistance Power of the Vital Organs like, Brain, Heart, Lungs, Pancreas, Liver and Intestine etc. It rejuvenates our body and safe guards the general Health of the people.
The whole world at large can get rid of dreadful diseases and blessed with the Natural healing Power by "Urine Therapy." The very feeling that the "Devine Panacea" the solution for all Ailments is within us can fill your life with immense pleasure. Person's self confidence and positive attitude can solve all their problems and they will be able to maintain healthy & happy life.
Physicians and Doctors keep on saying that Urine is poisonous excreta of the body is far from truth. It has been proved by my practical experience that almost all the Diseases can be prevented, controlled and cured by Urine Therapy provided it is done systematically in the proper method.
Sun light is Nature's Gift to mankind. We need Sun light to survive and be healthy in body and mind. Sun light positive energies at sunrise helps to balance and promote healing physical, emotional and spiritual. Sun is perceived as co-creator and sustainer of Life on earth. Scientist through out the World cannot invent or make any other manmade alternative Power equivalent to Sun light.
Urine is the "Elixir of life" a natural liquid that can cure host of diseases gifted by nature for the purpose of maintaining healthy life. The similar or the equally powerful natural liquid does not exist in the world and cannot be created and achieved through any other source of alternative medicine or through any other scientific method. Urine is the water of life which is the Natural gift given by our creator for spiritual growth and physical well being. Urine has "The healing power which is within you". Only you can heal yourself, nobody can help you unless you can help your self.
Urine is a Universal and excellent Remedy for all distempers inwards and outwards of Body. It is Antidote to poisons and destroys poison and all disease generated from VIT, PITT, KAFFA and it improves digestion and body becomes strong. It cures the illness by removing the waste products and toxins from body and also stimulating the defensive mechanism of body. It acts wonderfully on insects and other poisonous bites. It works for all sorts of pregnancy problem, excessive menstruation, and tumor in Uterus. It destroys many diseases of eyes, worms of intestines, scarlet fever and all skin diseases.
Urine is gifted by nature for the purpose of maintaining healthy life. It is an entirely drugless system of healing all kinds of diseases and maintaining good health. It purifies blood and gives new span of life. Urine contains the necessary compounds, Vitamins, Hormones and all valuable minerals, salts and chemical compounds which are very essential for growth and maintenance of human body. Volatile salts of Urine power fully absorbs acid and destroys the very root of most disease in human body.
The taste and the color of the urine depend upon what we drink and eat. Persons have to overcome Stigma attached to it and understand the proper method, technique, necessary diet and mode of treatment. When we wash our vessels or dirty cloth with pure water, the water becomes dirty which has to be discarded in drain. Similarly if we include oil, salt and chilies in our diet then we will pass yellow color urine and it will contain smell which has to be discarded. But if we avoid and do not include oil, salt and chilies in our diet and take balanced light diet, drink plenty of water and juices then we will pass colorless urine like pure water which contains multiple vitamins.
It is estimated that there are more than 8,000 diseases in the world. There are various number of Medicine, Alternative and Holistic method of treatment. Some of the medicines provided for treatment have limited effects to cure disease and some medicines have side effects.
DIABETES	: - There are estimation that there are over 5.8 crore people who are diabetic in India. Diabetes is more common almost everywhere in the world. It is considered to be the root cause of many chronic diseases. Urine Therapy is the safest and easiest method of treatment to prevent, control and cure Diabetes. It can safe guard all other complications arising from diabetes include heart disease, hypertension, and diabetic retinopathy.
HIV/AIDS is a disease where in people gradually acquire deficiency of immune system and the infected disease does not respond to any medicine. HIV infections lead to progressive reduction in number of T cells of CD 4 counts. Due to the deficiency of CD-4 counts of HIV the patient's immune system gradually reduces. The health of the patient deteriorates day by day and they suffer from various problems. Doctors advise them to take some medicine and Anti-Retroviral Therapy "ART" which is given to them just to delay the deterioration of the immune system. However their sufferings aggravate as there is no cure according to the medical science until to-day.
Urine Therapy is more powerful than Anti-Retroviral Therapy "ART". It can control the deterioration of the health of HIV/AIDS patients and improve their energy power. It can control and cure HIV/AIDS and relieve them from all other various problems. It can strengthen their immune system and increase their CD 4 Counts. Some of the people who have CD 4 count as low as 50 can increase their CD count to 800 and above.
CEREBRAL PALSY, Mental Retardation-Disability is the loss of deficiency of Motor Control with Involuntary Spasm due to Brain Damage by Birth that causes Paralysis. They are affected with the disease with twisted hands and legs that they are unable to move or balance without assistance and are not able to speak, hear, sit and stand.
Urine Therapy has power to control and Cure all Ailments subject to from very Birth including Cerebral Palsy. Children's affected with Cerebral Palsy by Birth who are unable to move and cannot sit, stand, speak and hear will be able to sit, stand and walk. They will be able to speak, hear, response to sound and recognize persons. It can promote memory, intelligence and develop brain function and improve their Physical Deformity. Their twisted hands and legs can become straight and muscles will develop in their body.
URINE THERAPY
Urine Therapy is not something new, instead it is a time proven method of entirely drugless system of healing and curing host of Diseases which has been continuing from generation to generation. In every civilization people have known the nectar-like properties of Urine. There are numerous references of Urine as a bestowed of heavenly health and super normal powers in "Yogic and Tantric" books.
Urine contains the chemical compounds which are very essential for the growth and maintenance of the health of human body. Indeed it is best natural tonic available in the world. There are some volatile salts in Urine, which are highly beneficial. These salts powerfully absorbs acids and eradicates most of the diseases in human bodies and as result many troubles of the body are cured from their very roots.
Urine is the best remedy for every external and internal disease of the body. It destroys poison and worms of the intestines. It gives new life, purifies blood and clears skin problems. It destroys disease of the eyes, makes body strong, improves digestion and destroys cough and colds. Urine repairs and rebuilds all the vital organs including lungs, pancreas, liver, brain, heart etc. Urine is also effective in dental and other oral troubles.
Urine is the best natural tonic, by drinking Urine, disease of kidneys, liver and bile, dropsy, stopping of sinuses, jaundice, plague and other poisonous fevers are cured. Outwardly applied it cleanses the skin and cures dandruff and is excellent against trembling, numbness and palsy. By applying Urine on body most complex diseases of skin are totally cured and the skin becomes clear and soft.
Urine is the watery part of the blood. Since Urine comes from the blood, it would qualify anyone who drank each other’s Urine provided if it is followed by the proper diet. Urine of a healthy person can be drunk or messaged by any other person who have difficulty or unable to collect his own Urine. A Person can drink Urine of any other healthy person as there is no other remedy equaling to this. It contains healing power which is amazing and a person gets enlighten spiritually which has to be experienced personally.
Mother can collect her white color Urine (color less like water) and give it to her child for drinking immediately after she passes from her body provided she drinks more water and eat only light and balanced diet.
This method can be adopted and Urine can be given to children and other persons who are affected with disease by birth like Cerebral Palsy and mental disorder. Urine can also be given to other persons who are unable to drink their own urine while undergoing treatment and who are suffering from any kind of Chronic Disease or who are diagnosed with Terminal and the final Stage.
*Urine is very effective healing modality and most powerful Natural treatment.
*It has Natural healing powers to Control and Cure all kinds of Chronic Diseases.
*It can boost the Immune System, Improve Nervous Disorder, Dissolves and Removes the Toxins Accumulated in our body.
*It can revive dead Tissues, Rebuild Resistance Power of the Vital Organs like, Brain, Heart, Lungs, Pancreas, Liver and Intestine etc.
*It rejuvenates our body and safe guards the general Health of the people.
*It is an entirely drugless effective system of healing all kinds of Chronic Diseases.
*It is the safest method of treatment which does not have any side effects.
*It is more powerful and has greater benefits than Chemotherapy and Radiation.
*It can kill Cancer cells without destroying the other active healthy cells.
* It can also minimize the side effects of Chemotherapy.
*It can give a new span of life to terminal patients suffering from Chronic Disease.
*It is one of the POSITIVE modes of treatment and it takes a short period to Control and Cure all ailments compared to all other methods and Alternative Therapies.
Urine Therapy can Control and Cure Cancer. It is more effective and has greater benefits than Radiation and Chemotherapy. It can destroy the growth of Cancer Cells and prevent them from spreading to the other parts of the body.It can kill poisonous substance in the cancerous cell without producing any side effect. It is also effective natural alternative for blood transfusion.
Persons who are suffering from Chronic Disease should adopt Urine Therapy by drinking Urine, massaging the body with Urine, keeping Urine wet pack on the body, drinking water, juices and maintaining balance light Diet.
Persons who have adopted Urine Therapy can undergo “Strict Urine Fasting” for 3 days i.e. dinking only water and Urine during the treatment. Urine fasting can be repeated after 7 days to achieve better and faster results.
Cancer is conventionally treated with Surgery, Radiation therapy and Chemotherapy. However statistics indicate that these treatments are limited in their effectiveness to treat Cancer and are riddled with side effects.
Chemotherapy has potential benefits which can reduce and kills some of the cancer cells that spread to the other parts of the body.
It also helps to shrinks tumor in the body to some extent.
Chemotherapy has some side effects as it kills and destroys Healthy cells along with Cancer cells. Various complications arise due to the side effects of this treatment which results in hair loss, vomiting, stomach pain, infection, nerves and muscle pain, decrease of white blood cells and red blood cells in the body.
Urine Therapy does not have any side effects.
It can be adopted by persons who are undergoing Surgery and Chemotherapy to achieve more benefits and positive results in a shorter period.
People who have already undergone Surgery and undergoing Chemotherapy can adopt Urine Therapy to achieve more benefits and positive results in shorter period. They can undergo Chemotherapy as advised by the Doctors and they can simultaneously at the same time continue Urine Therapy. It can decrease and minimize the side effects of Chemotherapy and help them to recover fast. It will improve their immune system, build healthier blood cell and increase their resistance power. “Urine Therapy” can give them a new span of life and can relieve them from all kinds of sufferings.
Persons who are undergoing Chemotherapy can drink Urine of any other healthy person during treatment in the hospital. It will help them to reduce the various complications which arise due to the side effects of Chemotherapy. They can also drink their own urine after 24 / 36 hours of undergoing Chemotherapy provided they keep on drinking plenty of water. They can drink their own urine whenever they find that their urine is colorless and it does not contain any smell.
Doctors and Oncologist does not recommend Chemotherapy or any other treatment to the patients who are diagnosed with the advanced and terminal 4th stage of Cancer. They feel that their survival chances are very less and that the patient will not be able to withstand the side effects of Chemotherapy. Doctors give away their hopes of their Survival and prescribe them palliative medicine.
Palliative Chemotherapy and palliative medicine can reduce the pain to some extent and helps them in difficult situation till they survive. It does not cure any disease.
Urine Therapy can be adopted by the persons who are diagnosed with the advance and terminal 4th stage of Cancer wherein any other medicine do not respond. When Urine Therapy is adopted in a proper method it’s effects and benefits starts responding within a short period. It can kill the cancer cells and prevents them from spreading to other parts of the body and relive them from their sufferings.
Palliative Chemotherapy is not powerful or a strong injection. Its benefits and side effects are limited. It does not cure Cancer. It is light / mild injection and has some benefits to shrinks Cancer cells and it can become helpful and supportive method to cure Cancer when it is given along with Urine Therapy.
Urine Therapy can reduce and minimizes the side effects of Palliative injections which are given to the Cancer patient in terminal stage.
*Doctors give away their hopes of survival to the patients who are on palliative treatment. They advise them palliative medicine just to reduce their pain and overcome difficult situation. Persons who are taking Palliative treatment /medicine can also adopt Urine Therapy. It can relieve their pain and sufferings and increase their span of Life.
*Doctors should believe the facts that “URINE has Natural Divine Healing Power” and there is only one Natural remedy which can Control and Cure various kinds of Diseases. The Testimonial of the patients and the evidence of the Medical test Reports has proved the Facts.
*Doctors can adopt their own method of treatment but at the same time they should not have any kind of barrier for the Natural method of Treatment as long as the patients are cured and are relieved from their sufferings.
*Doctors should advice and recommend the patients suffering from chronic disease to adopt Urine Therapy. It can save the Life of millions of people and relieve them from their sufferings. It can give them New Span of Life.
In many cases patients can avoid Surgery and Chemotherapy if Urine Therapy is adopted in early stage provided they follow the method of treatment in a proper method.
URINE THERAPY IS THE BEST REMEDY
FOR ALL “A TO Z” PROBLEMS
FROM COMMON COLD TO CANCER
TOP^
About Us | Benefits of U.T | Urine is a Universal Medicine | Ancient Reference of U.T | Doctors and Scientists moral support | Testimonial & Reports Of Cancer Patients | Method of Treatment | Case history of patients | Healthy diet
copy right © 2017 J.Bhurani all rights reserved Web design by SME