Best Home Remedies For Nausea | Pick a Remedy
Menu
Home
Blog
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Find Remedies
Health
Cleansing
Cold, Flu & Allergies
Diet
Digestive Health
Diseases & Conditions:
Ears
Eye Health
Feet
Hair
Men’s Health
Mental Health
Oral Care
Pain Relief
Skin
Skin Care
Skin Conditions/Disorders
Sleep
Wellbeing
Woman’s Health
X
Now Trending
Top Reasons Why Wheatgrass is The Ultimate Superfood
Why You Need to Add Spirulina to Your Health Arsenal
5 Surprising Advantages of Having a Whiter Smile
Best Home Remedies For Nausea
Nausea is a medical term used to define stomach discomfort that often precedes vomiting. Vomiting, medically referred to as emesis, is the forceful removal of the stomach’s contents through the mouth. This is sometimes referred to as ‘throwing up’.
There are different causes of nausea, and while this in itself is not a medical condition, it is often an indication of an underlying condition or disorder. Some of the most common causes of nausea include the first few months of pregnancy, medication that triggers vomiting as well as motion sickness. Food poisoning is also a common cause of nausea.
Other medical conditions that trigger nausea include ulcers, cancer treatment, searing abdominal pain or cramping as well as a reaction to pungent smells. The specific timing of the nausea is often indicative of the possible causes of the nausea. Nausea a short while after a meal, for instance, points to the likelihood of food poisoning. Nausea in the early morning and sometimes throughout the day could be a sign of morning sickness in expectant women.
In kids, persistent complains of nausea could be a sign of allergic reactions, food poisoning or a case of overeating. Whichever the cause of nausea, this is one uncomfortable condition. The good news, however, is that there are quite a number of natural remedies that you can use to address nausea. If however, the nausea is prolonged and is accompanied by vomiting on almost every occasion, it is imperative that you seek the services of a medical doctor.
1. Ginger:
Time Required: 60 Min
What You Need: For the Ginger Drink 1 fresh ginger root, a peeler, 2 cups of warm water, wax paper, a strainer, a chopping board and honey (an optional natural sweetener).
For the Ginger Ale: 2 cups of grated ginger root, lemon peels, 6 pints of club soda, half a cup of sugar, 4 cups of water and ice cubes to chill.
Difficulty: Easy
Raw ginger is an excellent home remedy when you need to treat nausea at home. The root works by enhancing the production of the stomach’s digestive enzymes. These enzymes assist in the neutralization of the stomach’s Hydrochloric Acid (HCl). In addition to this, the ginger contains phenols whose function involves the relaxation of tissue in the stomach and digestive tract. Almost simultaneously, as the phenols in the ginger pass from the stomach to the ileum, they promote the proper digestion of food and quick elimination of any toxins that may cause nausea. The result is less nausea and better digestion.
Tip: There are different ways you can take the ginger, but the best way to enjoy the root’s benefits is to take the root in its raw form. Other alternatives which you can use with the ginger include ginger capsules or supplements as well as ginger in soup. You may also choose to prepare ginger ale using the directions included below.
Directions:
Method 1: Preparing the Ginger Drink:
Clean the ginger root well before peeling it to get rid of the layer of dirt.
Slice the ginger into sizable pieces using the knife and chopping board.
You will then cover the pieces with the wax paper to allow you crush the ginger to get it in its minced format.
Place the minced ginger aside and boil 2 cups of water.
Once the water has started boiling, add the ginger and stir.
Lower the heat and allow the mixture to simmer for about 5 minutes.
Turn off the heat and strain the ginger mixture.
You may keep this step if you do not mind the ginger in the mixture.
Stir in the honey and sip slowly while still warm.
Method 2: Preparing Ginger Ale:
Mix the grated ginger root with the lemon peels to get a coarse mixture.
Add the water and stir the mixture once more.
Transfer the mixture to a pan and bring it to boil.
Once the mixture starts to boil, lower the heat and do not cover the pan.
Pour in the sugar in small amounts as you stir.
Allow the mixture to boil for another 10 minutes so that the mixture continues to decrease in volume.
Place a strainer over a large container and strain it to eliminate the solids.
Refrigerate the syrupy mixture and use within 7 days.
Take half a cup of the mixture and add a cup of the soda before stirring.
Add ice cubes and flavorings and sip the mixture.
2. Prepare Milk Toast:
Time Required: 30 Min
What You Need: A cup of cold milk, a slice of bread and margarine or butter.
Difficulty: Easy
The idea behind using milk toast is to indulge in bland food with the aim of calming the stomach. The bread works well through the absorption of toxins and excessive acids in the stomach while the milk lines the stomach and relaxes the muscles to reduce the stomach’s activity. This remedy is particularly helpful for nausea that is medication-induced. Note, however, that it is not advisable to take milk on its own as the presence of lactic acid may prolong the nausea. More importantly, do not use this remedy if you are lactose intolerant as this will cause an adverse reaction to the milk and bread.
Directions:
Heat a cup of milk to the point where it is hot enough but not boiling.
Transfer the hot milk to a bowl.
Place a slice of bread on the toaster and apply a small amount of margarine to prevent it from sticking.
When the toast is ready, place it in the bowl containing milk and disintegrate it slowly.
Eat the milk toast slowly and gauge the progress as the nausea dissipates.
3. Fresh Lemon Wedges:
Time Required: 15 Min
What You Need: 1 Medium-sized fresh lemon and a sharp knife.
Difficulty: Easy
Lemon is one of the most amazing natural remedies available for different conditions, and nausea is no exception. Lemon has a fresh zesty taste that is as refreshing as it is calming. It is this calming sensation that helps ease the nausea. The fact that the lemon contains Citric Acid does not stand promote the nausea since this remedy does not involve ingestion and instead uses inhalation.
Directions:
Wash the lemon and proceed t slice it in half.
Bring the lemon wedges close to your nose so that you can catch the whiffs of the citrus aroma.
Inhale deeply and exhale fully for a period of 10 minutes.
Repeat this procedure whenever you feel nauseous until the discomfort fades away.
4. Peppermint:
Time Required: 20 Min
What You Need: Peppermint oil and cotton wool.
Difficulty: Easy
Peppermint oil works in more or less the same way as the lemons because it has a refreshing aroma that has the ability to calm nausea and relax an upset tummy. The most effective way to benefit from peppermint is to use the essential oil. The other alternatives involves the preparation of peppermint tea.
Directions:
Place some of the peppermint oil in a shallow bowl and soak the cotton wool.
Squeeze the excess oil before applying the oil in your mouth, directly in the gum region.
If you do not have any cotton wool, you need not worry as you can always clean your hands well before applying the oil on the gums.
Let the oil stay in place and repeat as often as may be required.
5. Go With Frozen Citrus Fruit:
Time Required: 20 Min
What You Need: Slices of your preferred fruit which may include any of the following: lemons, limes or oranges. Ziploc bag
Difficulty: Easy
The idea behind using frozen citrus fruits is that in addition to the refreshing taste, the low temperatures create a calming effect for the typical upset stomach. Since the frozen fruits come in handy when feeling nauseous, it helps to freeze the fruits well in advance. Follow the directions below when you need to prepare the frozen fruits.
Directions:
Clean your choice citrus fruits well before slicing them into wedges.
Place the wedges in a Ziploc bag and freeze.
Once you start to feel nauseous, simply suck on the frozen wedges until the nausea dissipates.
6. Aromatherapy:
Time Required: 20 Min
What You Need: A blend of choice essential oils (these include ginger, cardamom, spearmint and peppermint oils and mineral oil which acts as a carrier oil ), cotton wool
Difficulty: Easy
Aromatherapy is a simple yet effective way to manage nausea. This is because it goes a long way in controlling the scents that abound in your immediate surroundings. The use of the aforementioned essential oils provides relief from nausea. These oils also have the advantage of been incorporated in massage therapy, making them a reliable natural remedy altogether.
Directions:
Blend the different oils, making sure to use the neutral oil (in this case mineral oil) for dilution purposes.
Carry out a skin patch test to rule out the possibility of an allergic reaction.
Soak the cotton wool in the oil mixture and place it just below your nose to inhale the different aromas.
Repeat this procedure severally until you get relief from nausea.
7. Use Spices to Manage Nausea:
Time Required: 30 Min on average.
What You Need: Any of the following spices: aniseed, cloves, cumin, cinnamon, fennel or mint. 2 cups of tea and a strainer.
Difficulty: Easy
Spics are not only ideal for cooking, they also double up as excellent home remedies for the management of nausea. The different spices work differently, but due to the diversity of the same, it is important to use these spices under the guidance of your doctor, particularly if you are expectant. For the most part, the remedies will require brewing a drink using the directions provided below.
Directions:
Once you have chosen your preferred spice, the next step is to bring a cup of water to boil.
Add a half a teaspoon of the spice to the boiling water and steep for 15 minutes.
Strain the mixture and discard the powder.
Sip on the brewed drink slowly and observe how your body reacts.
This should help you manage the nausea.
Other simple ways to manage nausea include taking enough fluids to provide relief from the discomfort, getting fresh air to calm your body, using a cold compress to help get rid of the uneasiness as well as stretching well. If the nausea extends for a longer period, make sure you get medical help.
Stay Connected With Us
Popular
Recent
Comments
Copyright © 2019 Pick a Remedy