Causes of the common cold and other old wives' tales: the Vitamin C angle - CASA Veneracion
Menu
Skip to right header navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Breakfast. Lunch. Dinner. Midnight Snack.
About
Cooking Class
Recipe Index
Search
Search this website
Learn to Cook in 10 Weeks
How to Cook, Lesson 1: Know Your Ingredients
How to Cook, Lesson 2: Five Essential Kitchen Tools
How to Cook, Lesson 3: Chicken, Meat and Seafood
How to Cook, Lesson 4: Prepping Vegetables
How to Cook, Lesson 5: Basic Cooking Methods
How to Cook, Lesson 6: Intermediate Cooking Methods
How to Cook, Lesson 7: Cooking Without Meat (Think Vegetarian)
How to Cook, Lesson 8: Creative Cookery (a.k.a. Cooking With No Recipes)
How to Cook, Lesson 9: Reheating and Recycling Leftovers
How to Cook, Lesson 10: Exploring Cuisines
Recipes By Type
Appetizers & Snacks
Bread & Breakfast
Superb Soups
Chicken, Duck & Turkey
Fish & Seafood
Meatless
Mighty Meaty
Noodles
Rice & Grains
Sandwiches & Wraps
Side Dishes
Sweets & Desserts
Drinks
You are here: Home / Natural Health / Causes of the common cold and other old wives’ tales: the Vitamin C angle
Causes of the common cold and other old wives’ tales: the Vitamin C angle
04/14/2012 // by Connie Veneracion
49shares
My nose is still stuffy as I write this, I’ve been nursing a cold for days and I figured I’d read about the common cold and find out why it is often associated with Vitamin C deficiency. The reading started by revisiting something I wrote five years ago about some fantastic theories on what causes the common cold and the comments from readers were replete with all kinds of weird superstitions. Read it, and the comments, and be entertained.
But even before going into the Vitamin C deficiency angle, let me start by saying that the common cold is caused by a virus (it is a different virus if the cold is a precursor to influenza) which infects the upper respiratory tract. A virus. Despite being called the COLD, it is not caused by exposure to cold weather or by ingesting large amounts of something cold especially during cold weather — like eating too much ice cream when it’s raining cats and dogs. We’re smack in the middle of summer here in the tropics and I have a bad cold.
Moreover, the viruses that cause the common cold are not airborne. In short, when someone infected with a cold sneezes or coughs without covering his mouth, the persons around him will not catch the virus that way. It is spread via physical contact.
The primary means of spreading a cold is through hand-to-hand contact or from objects that have been touched by someone with a cold.
The typical transmission occurs when a cold sufferer rubs his or her nose and then, shortly thereafter, shakes hands with someone who, in turn, touches his or her own nose or eyes.
Alternatively, virus transmission often occurs via doorknobs and other hard surfaces, such as subway handrails, grocery carts, office telephones, and computer keyboards. [Source]
Now, the Vitamin C angle. Why is it that when one has a cold, one of the most common remedies is large dosages of fruit juice — especially citric juices? The most common answer is to supply the body with large amounts of Vitamin C to cure the cold. Is there a factual basis for that?
There are at least two studies that show that Vitamin C does not cure nor prevent the common cold. See Vitamin C for preventing and treating the common cold and Examining the evidence for the use of vitamin C in the prophylaxis and treatment of the common cold.
The juice therapy may be rooted in something really sensible — the need for fluids to break up the congestion. But fluids do not have to be in the form of fruit juices. Water, herbal infusions and brews, and soups are great too. Which is just as well because the truth is, I hate drinking citric juices when I have a cold because the acid makes my throat even more itchy and, when the cold is accompanied by a cough, and that is often the case with me, downing too much juice makes my cough even worse.
The even bigger truth is that there is no cure for the common cold. There are reliefs, certainly, like inhaling steam to relieve nasal congestion or saltwater gargles to relieve an itchy throat. Still most reliefs work in the form of a placebo.
So, does that mean we should just ignore Vitamin C in our daily diet? Well, no, of course not. We need it to stay healthy. Which now brings me to another common belief that the best sources of Vitamin C, or ascorbic acid, are acidic fruits. In fact, I know a lot of people who think that the more sour the fruit, the better source of Vitamin C it is. Ergo, a lemon has more Vitamin C than an orange, and so on, and so forth.
NOT TRUE. Some foods that don’t even have the slightest taste of acidity are even better sources of Vitamin C than sour fruits.
The table is from Wikipedia; countercheck the data with other sources if you feel that Wikipedia is not all that reliable. I did and I found pretty much the same things — peppers, broccoli and parsley contain more vitamin C than lemon and orange. See this and this, for instance. There are more but I’ll leave it to you to find them.
With all that in mind, I’ll stick to the Golden Rule for treating the common cold — sleep, rest, and more sleep and rest.
49shares
Home & Garden Natural HealthHealth
More Like This
What’s the difference between sea salt and rock salt?
Oregano as a Culinary Herb and Natural Medicine
Aromatherapy at Home: Incense, Oil Burner or Oil Diffuser?
Natural Reliefs and Cure for that Pesky Cough
Salted Egg Pasta Carbonara
Rosemary: In the Garden, Kitchen and in Herbal Medicine
Sam’s Homemade Cough Drops
Cooking Your Veggies May Be Healthier Than Eating Them Raw
Coffee hydrates the body but too much can cause dehydration
Forget corn and sunflower oil; coconut oil is healthier. Frying food in butter is good for you too!
Dear WHO: Please don’t insult the public with lazy research
Does microwave cooking result in the healthiest meals?
Previous Post: « Peanut Crepes With Dulce de Leche Filling
Next Post: Tripe, Sausage and Chickpea Soup »
Reader Interactions
Primary Sidebar
~ Recipes ~
Appetizers & Snacks
Superb Soups
Bread & Breakfast
Chicken, Duck & Turkey
Fish & Seafood
Mighty Meaty
Noodles
Rice & Grains
Sandwiches & Wraps
Side Dishes
Sweets & Desserts
Drinks
Meatless
Ovo-Vegetarian
Lacto-Vegetarian
Ovo-lacto Vegetarian
Vegan
Keto (Low Carb)
~ Popular Today ~
Sinigang na manok (chicken and vegetables soup with tamarind extract)
A Guide To Ramen Broth: Shio, Shoyu, Miso and Tonkotsu
Spicy Korean Beef Stew a la House of Kimchi
How to make: Tsokolateng tablea (Filipino hot chocolate drink)
What’s the difference between sea salt and rock salt?
Footer
Hello There!
I'm Connie Veneracion: cook, crafts enthusiast, researcher, reviewer, story teller and occasional geek.
Read more about me, the cooks and the name of the blog. If you're wondering why commenting is off by default, read this.
I am on Pinterest, Youtube, Facebook and Instagram.
Not So Fine Print
Privacy & TOS ♥ Disclaimer ♥ Get In Touch (I don’t accept guest posts, I don’t give free links and I don’t do link exchanges. Exclude me from your round-ups too. Thank you.)
Except for public domain videos, stock images and screen grabs, all images and text © Connie, Speedy, Sam & Alex Veneracion. That means do not reproduce content without written permission from the blog owner.
Copyright © 2019 CASA Veneracion · ALL RIGHTS RESERVED · Powered by Apple, Canon, coffee & ramen.