Skin Tags versus Warts: All the Differences You Need to Know about — Tag Away Reviews
Home
Subscribe
Tag Away Reviews
Skin Tags versus Warts: All the Differences You Need to Know about
by Paul on December 2, 2013
There are plenty of differences between skin tags and warts, but the undeniable reality is that a lot of similarities also exist. In essence, both these skin conditions are harmless, but the best way in addressing them starts with being able to tell the difference. After all, how can you apply the proper skin treatment, if you don’t even know what you’re ‘fighting against’, right? That’s why today’s post focuses on the essential issue of skin tags versus warts – so that you, too, can accurately tell them apart.
What are skin tags?
Skin tags or acrochordons are benign outgrowths of skin which occur naturally on the skin of the sufferer, usually due to a change in their hormonal balance. This is why they are regularly found on the skin of aging individuals, or pregnant women. Skin tags can be removed in a variety of ways, the simplest of methods being that of home removal with the aid of a topical formula such as TagAway. If you want an alternative to invasive, intrusive surgical procedures that can also leave marks or scars on the skin, then you should try TagAway as an option to freezing off skin tags or to having them surgically removed with a scalpel. It leaves no marks and can easily be applied at home by just about anyone.
What are warts?
Warts are small, rough lumps of skin which often emerge on people’s feet and hands. They often provoke confusion, since they look widely different, depending on where they appear and how rough that particular patch of skin is. Verrucas, for instance, are the warts that people get on the skin located on the soles of their feet and are easy to recognize. All warts have the common denominator of cause, which is an infection with HPV. They are non-cancerous but spread very easily, owing to their high rate of contagiousness.
Skin tags versus warts: the differences at a glance
Texture
A good way to discriminate between skin tags and warts is to check out the texture of the area of skin in question. Is it smooth and soft to the touch? If it is, then you’re most likely looking at a skin tag. Conversely, warts are rough, patchy, irregular, and nowhere near as soft to touch.
Excrescence
Another way of telling skin tags and warts apart is by looking at the way the growth on your skin is protruding. It might not be a pleasant process, or even a nice thought to accommodate, but size in growth is one way of telling the difference between skin tags versus warts. While warts usually lay flat on the surface of the sufferer’s skin, skin tags have the structure of a knob and represent an outgrowth or protuberance. As such, if the issue that has emerged on your skin grows out, yet still remains attached to your skin via a stalk, it’s safe to say that’s a skin tag and not a wart.
Contagiousness
If you’re experiencing an outbreak on your skin, chances are it’s not skin tags. Of course, eruptive skin conditions come in all shapes and sizes (pun not intended!), but if it looks as if your skin tags are spreading, as it were, they’re probably not skin tags at all. Unlike warts, acrochordons don’t spread from one spot on your skin to the next. Warts, on the other hand, do spread very quickly and with great ease. Check to see if your skin condition is in any way expanding, evolving, or growing at a rapid pace. An outbreak or a series of clusters on your skin is a very likely indicator of contagious warts, not one of skin tags.
Tagged as: conditions, issues, skin tag, skin tag remedy, skin tags, tag away, tips, warts
Cancel reply
Leave a Comment
Name *
E-mail *
Website
Previous post: How to Care for Your Skin during Pregnancy
Next post: Does Medical Insurance Cover Skin Tag Removal?
Recent Posts
Skin Care That You Can’t Do Yourself at Home
3 Ways to Purify Your Skin This Spring
Take Care of Your Scalp’s Skin Too
Can you really prevent stretch marks?
Plant-Based Skin Care with 5 DIY Recipes
Archives
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
February 2013
January 2013
August 2012
Categories
Information
Reviews
Tag Removal
Tips
Uncategorized
Tags
aging as seen on tv bottle causes cedar leaf oil commercial conditions consumers dermatologist directions dry skin floss food help homeopathic home removal how to info ingredients issues makeup melaleuca oil pregnancy remedy removal remover research results review reviews routine skincare skin care skin care tricks skin tag skin tag remedy skin tags tag away tags tea tree oil tea tre oil tee trea oil thuja occidentalis tips tv ad
Pages
Contact Us
Disclosure
Privacy Policy GDPR
WordPress Admin
Cookies
This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Learn more.
Got it!