Adventures in Autism: So You Saw A Meme Of A Bunny Holding A Sign That Says, “Vaccines Cause Autism,” And You Have Some Questions
Adventures in Autism
News and commentary on the autism epidemic and my beautiful boy who is living with autism.
August 1, 2018
So You Saw A Meme Of A Bunny Holding A Sign That Says, “Vaccines Cause Autism,” And You Have Some Questions
On July 14th of this year, I was scrolling through twitter and saw a graphic of graphic of a bunny holding a sign, and thought, “cute, Imma try that. cut/paste/fill in sign text/ what could it say... umm... "Vaccines Cause Autism.” Tossed up the little throw away tweet and didn't think of it again.
I have been investigating and writing about the relationship between vaccines and autism since 2004, and put out a few thousand tweets on the subject, that get a bit of discussion, but none prepared me for The Great Vaccine Autism Bunny Ratio of 2018.
A few days ago someone RT'd it somewhere, and twitter noticed and it made many of them very unhappy. Hundreds of comments flowed in. I was all, “Wait... THIS is what gets people to pay attention to this subject and engage with us on vaccine risk?!” A decade of documenting fraud, discussing research, sharing government vaccine safety guidelines, sharing videos of official government meetings on vaccine safety, and apparently I should have just tweeted three word bunny memes.
But no worries. Ultimately I am grateful for the bunny as he has brought us together, and you have asked a question that I want to answer. And because I have been unable to keep up with answering the questions, and so many are repeat questions (that I have started cutting and pasting answers to) I decided to give you a one stop destination for answers. Some have not been phrased in the kindest way possible, or given me much of the benefit of the doubt, but they are important questions none the less, so...
1. “Wrong... lies. Where's your proof?”
While it is not in the initial tweet, so many didn't see it, the second tweet in that thread is a link to a list of papers that I have been compiling over the last 11 years to rebut the false claim that, “There is no evidence of any link between vaccines and autism.” Because the vaccine industry has spent a great deal of time and money cultivating that falsehood, few know that research show multiple links between vaccines and autism. You can read the list here:
151 Research Papers Supporting the Vaccine/Autism Link
Despite decades of parental requests to have these and other lines of inquiry followed up, CDC and NIH have refused to conduct any large scale follow up research on these findings.
2. “Well 150,000 prove they don't.”
There are no studies proving that vaccines don't cause autism. The American Academy of Pediatrics offers 48 papers that fail to find an association between vaccines and autism.
Vaccine Safety: Examine the Evidence
Note that unlike my list which makes clears that it is ONLY offering the evidence that supports the vaccine/autism link, AAP's article title suggests that you are getting ALL the evidence. It then proceeds to give you ONLY the research that fails to find an association between vaccines and autism, while presenting not one of the papers I have offered.
Further note that the AAP's position statement no longer claims that vaccines don't cause autism. They don't claim anything at all, one way or the other. It is a carefully worded statement that talks about research that fails to find an association, but notes that there is other research on vaccine-autism causation that they do not include. I have written a piece on their position here:
The AAP No Longer Claims that Vaccines Don't Cause Autism
3. “So you would rather your child have polio than have autism?”
My initial response is, “What? How did you get from “Vaccines cause autism” to there? I haven't made ANY vaccine recommendations here! Then I remembered that there is a 30 billion dollar per year vaccine industry committed to you making these kinds of leaps.
You seem to have assumed that I am advocating for an end to vaccination. I am not anti-vaccine, and my children are vaccinated. I have written a lengthy discussion of my vaccine position and experience for the Johns Hopkins Journal, Narrative Inquiry in Bioethics.
This is not an either/or proposition. There is risk from both complications from any vaccine, and the diseases that the vaccine is targeting. We must have an honest evaluation of both, and use that information to prevent harm in either case to individual children with DIFFERENT biological risk factors for each.
I do not give advice to others on whether or not to vaccinate, or how to vaccinate, I merely offer resources to families so that they can make their own decisions.
But did you know that the vaccine schedule when I was growing up was 24 doses, birth to 18, and the current schedule is 70 doses? And that the tripling of the vaccine schedule began in 1988, two years after Congress gave the vaccine industry complete immunity from lawsuits against vaccine injury or death?
You know that there was no autism epidemic in the 70s and 80s OR epidemics of vaccine targeted diseases, right? Even for the diseases that we now vaccinate for, but didn't then.
So how is this a choice between fully vaccinating now, or death? If I survived with a third of the vaccines kids get now, then why must I have to vaccinate my children the way I was vaccinated or watch them die?
And why arn't children dying left and right in Denmark?
Could it be that you have been lied to by the vaccine industry about exactly how badly their products are needed?
Here are the vaccine coverage rates in the US when I was in high school. Where were all the epidemics?
4. “Then what is your point?”
THIS IS ABOUT INFORMED CONSENT. The United Nations Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights asserts that:
“Article 6 – Consent
1. Any preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic medical intervention is only to be carried out with the prior, free and informed consent of the person concerned, based on adequate information. The consent should, where appropriate, be express and may be withdrawn by the person concerned at any time and for any reason without disadvantage or prejudice.
2. Scientific research should only be carried out with the prior, free, express and informed consent of the person concerned. The information should be adequate, provided in a comprehensible form and should include modalities for withdrawal of consent. Consent may be withdrawn by the person concerned at any time and for any reason without any disadvantage or prejudice. Exceptions to this principle should be made only in accordance with ethical and legal standards adopted by States, consistent with the principles and provisions set out in this Declaration, in particular in Article 27, and international human rights law.
3. In appropriate cases of research carried out on a group of persons or a community, additional agreement of the legal representatives of the group or community concerned may be sought. In no case should a collective community agreement or the consent of a community leader or other authority substitute for an individual’s informed consent.”
The vaccine industry, which includes the vaccine patent holding CDC, has committed fraud in asserting that vaccines are not linked to autism. As demonstrated above, there are many links between vaccines and autism. HHS has admitted this in their response to reporters in the Hannah Poling case, where a girl with autism was paid for her vaccine induced encephalopathy by the government's Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, that:
“Encephalopathy may be accompanied by a medical progression of an array of symptoms including autistic behavior, autism, or seizures.”
Context and lengthy discussions of the admissions that the government has had to make can be found here:
Vaccines Don't Cause Autism, and Guns Don't Kill People
I work toward vaccine safety reform and informed consent. We need a dramatic overhaul of the National Vaccine Plan, including prescreening for genetic and autoimmune risk factors before vaccines are administered, immediate treatment of symptoms arising post vaccination, mandatory education for doctors and health care providers on government and manufacturer vaccine safety guidelines, alternate schedules for high risk cases for reactions, low cost readily available titers testing, and most importantly, the repeal of the 1986 National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act.
There is a rapidly growing research base on autism causation and treatment that health officials are ignoring, that can make vaccination safer, and improve the quality of life for those with autism. Health officials must implement this established science and end the false dichotomy of “fully vaccinate or die” arguments.
5. “...better education for doctors” lmao how about better education for ginger taylor instead?"
We introduce a bill in Maine to mandate training for doctors on manufacturer and federal vaccine injury guidelines. In their testimony, the doctors showed that they didn't even know there were federal guidelines.
Maine Doctors Submit Testimony Showing That They Are Not Qualified to Advise Patients on Vaccination
Let the doctors themselves tell you how much they were taught about vaccines in medical school:
6. Yes you ARE anti-vaccine!
No. Talking about vaccine risk and vaccine injury does not make one anti-vaccine, and more than talking about the serious side effects that some people have from antibiotics makes one anti-antibiotic.
Here the Department of Heath and Human Services discusses many of the serious adverse reactions some have to vaccines, including death. This does not make HHS anti-vaccine.
The US Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Table of Injuries
7. “Did you know that this theory was caused by ONE dude in I believe Europe who made this claim with no scientific evidence. And to this day there is no evidenced them being linked?”
No, The Theory of Vaccine Induced Autism Did Not Begin With Andrew Wakefield.
The first paper to link the two was the first paper on autism, by Leo Kanner in 1943. The idea was discussed for decades, to the point that in 1991 the Institute of Medicine was including it in their reports on vaccine safety funded by the National Institutes of Health, published by the National Academy of Sciences and edited by none other than Harvard's Harvey Fineberg... seven years before the Wakefield paper.
And again, as shown above, there are now more than a hundred papers discussing the link. Yet the public has been sold the lie that there is just ONE retracted paper by this ONE guy who came up with the whole thing that has been “debunked.” Details on the 75 year continuous history of vaccine-autism discussion in the medical literature here:
No, The Theory of Vaccine Induced Autism Did Not Begin With Andrew Wakefield.
8. "But I know someone who has autism and was never vaccinated, so you fail!"
There are several genetic and environmental causes of autism. Vaccination is merely ONE of the environmental causes. They also include medications taken during pregnancy, medications administered in childhood, and contaminants in the food, air and water. There are unvaccinated children with autism.
9. "But I got all the vaccines and am not autistic."
Not everyone who eats a peanut goes into anaphylaxis. Nor does everyone who gets a bee sting or takes penicillin. But some do.
It is the same with vaccines. Not everyone will have a vaccine adverse reaction, but some do.
Spend some time reading the adverse reactions of each vaccine, and what contraindications each shot has, that can help predict who will have a bad reaction ahead of time.
The Institute for Vaccine Safety, the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health,
Package Inserts and Manufacturers for some US Licensed Vaccines and Immunoglobulins.
10. "Well then why don't you just shut up and sue them?"
This is a very, very good question. Kudos. I wish I had asked it before my kids were vaccinated.
In 1986, Congress passed the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act that was eventually interpreted by the Supreme Court, which barred those injured by vaccines, or families of loved ones killed by vaccines, to file lawsuits against pharmaceutical companies that made the dangerous vaccines.
At the same time, Congress declared all FDA approved vaccines, "Unavoidably Unsafe" which means it cannot be made safe for it's intended use.
Then Pharma started a campaign to declare that "Vaccines Are Safe," and to mandate them for first school children, then medical professionals, then those dependant on social services, and soon for everyone. Based on the claim that "vaccines are safe" even though they are "unavoidably unsafe."
You think that this would be an easy law suit to win, but again, no family has be able to get into a civil court and have a jury hear any vaccine injury case in more than 30 years. It is a mess.
So to those who are vaccinating. Buyer Beware. Do your homework first. Thousands of families like ours have learned the hard way. Once you have a vaccine injury, you are on your own.
11. "Why does that number keep changing? It was 130-something. Then 149, 150, 151...Every time you posted this the number has been different. You having a go?
I have been compiling this list for 11 years, it started with 18 papers. Every time I add a new paper ScribD changes the link. You are just seeing copies of the old link. The current list in 151. I already have more to add, but have not done so yet, so you will likely come across higher numbers, and the science behind vaccine autism causation is growing rapidly. By contrast, there has not been a paper that failed to find an association between vaccines and autism since 2015 according to the American Academy of Pediatrics.
https://www.scribd.com/doc/220807175/151-Research-Papers-Supporting-the-Vaccine-Autism-Link
12."You are not a good person."
As a Calvinist, I have no rebuttal to offer you.
13. “Fuck you. You're an idiot.”
Your contempt has been noted. Thank you for your input.
I am still grateful that the Vaccine Autism Bunny and his ratio has brought us together. I know that this hit you the hard way, but I still hope you are able to glean a little something from this discussion, even if it is only that it is not as straight forward a matter as you initially thought it was.
14. "Shut up."
I can't. I have a duty to warn.
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Wednesday, August 01, 2018
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
18 comments:
Unknown said...
Love this. Thank you.
Ali Becker
4:59 PM
Unknown said...
👌
6:38 PM
Sue Adams said...
Thanks for putting all the links & research in one thread. ☺💕
10:08 PM
Devon said...
#9 - represent!
8:40 AM
Anika Collinge said...
I am pro vaccines but this offers insight. Good read. I like your point about “not everyone who eats a peanut goes into Anaphylaxis” and your very right. Yes vaccines may not give every child autism but like you stated with certain environmental factors with the vaccines it could be the culprit for causing autism in certain cases.
3:19 PM
Clinnovo said...
Thanks for sharing Good Information
AUTISM
7:37 AM
Rob Watson said...
Please consider sharing my Nano Blenders Thesis with your colleagues,
a version of which can be found at
https://www.academia.edu/18180349/Nano-Blenders_Thesis_17th_November_2015
Further a list of adverse health outcomes from Titanium Dioxide in Food and
Drugs can be found here.
https://rgd.mcw.edu/rgdweb/pathway/pathwayRecord.html?acc_id=PW:0001437
There is a growing body of evidence that many diseases are simply various
forms of toxicity induced by nano particles.
Multiple species are affected by the interactions of nano-particles and
electro-magnetic radiation.
4:08 AM
karen dish said...
WOW ALL THANKS TO DR WILLIAMS I HAVE NEVER BELIEVE IN HERBAL REMEDIES.
my son have been a patient of autism . I had tried a lot of anti viral med prescribed to me by doctors over how many years now but I could not see any improvements in my son symptoms. One day when going through the internet , i got to know about this great Herbal Dr who uses his herbal remedies in curing people from autism,quickly i contacted him and he prepared a herbal medication for my son which i received and he used it as instructed by dr williams. After few weeks the improvement were very visible. the speech delay and the poor eye contact stopped, I would recommend this to all my friends,families,around the globe suffering from autism.you can contact him through his email on drwilliams098675@gmail.com.for advice and for his product THANKS TO YOU ONCE AGAIN ADMIN FOR SUCH AN INFORMATIVE BLOG.
4:03 AM
LEONERDO DICAPRIO said...
SPECIAL THANKS TO DR WILLIAMS FOR THE AUTISM CURE HE
RENDER TO MY SON.
I'm giving a testimony about Dr. WILLIAMS for the great deed he have done for my family, he has
the natural cure to autism, he cured my 7 years old son from autism ,
I went through different website where I saw a testimonies about this great Dr Williams, I was like: 'Dr Williams have the autism cure why are
people still suffering from it?' I thought of it, then I contact Dr Williams, I didn't believe him that much, I just wanted to give him a try, he replied my mail and Needed some Information about my son, then I sent them to him, he prepared the (CURE) and sent it to me through Courier Service and he also give me details to the Courier Office, that i will receive the medicine between 1-3 working days,after getting the medicine from the delivering company my son started using the medicine as prescribed by Dr Williams and i took my son for check-up 1 month after finishing the medicine, then the doctor confirmed that my son is now autism free, if you are suffering from autism you can also contact him on his email address: drwilliams098675@gmail.com for his help.
5:22 PM
michaele shelley said...
HOW I WAS CURED TOTALLY FROM AUTISM
I had my first attack of (AUTISM) when I was a kid, I wasn't diagnosed until seven years later when I was totally experiencing speech delay. It was so terrifying that I began dropping things and losing sensitivity to sounds, having severe fatigue and muscle weakness. A horrible poor eyes contact began. I sometimes can't walk straight and fall onto walls and I get leaning disability, the English medications i used proved abortive. i was so frustrated that i had to contact My neurologist,he told me about a new RRMS (relapsing-remitting MS) drug which was only in its trial stage, CAMPATH. I started the chemo-type treatment and some prescribed drugs like: RISPERDAL, EFFEXOR XR, GEODON and MEMANTINE. which resulted in 1st seizure of my life, thereby adding more salt to my injury. As a result to proffer solution to my problems, i started going online in search for a cure, i came across a testimony of a woman who got her son cure through HERBAL MEDICATION, at first, i doubted because of the misconception that autism can not be cured. But i later contacted the Doctor through the email provided, and I used his Herbal product, after 1 month of use, I noticed tremendous improvement in my health, 5 months after, I can proudly say, I've been totally cured by Dr.williams Herbal Medication from AUTISM..., If you have the same health issue, you may contact him for a total change of story, Via: drwilliams098675@gmail.com . I believe your predicament will be a thing of the past just like mine.
4:39 PM
karen dish said...
WOW ALL THANKS TO DR WILLIAMS I HAVE NEVER BELIEVE IN HERBAL REMEDIES.
my son have been a patient of autism . I had tried a lot of anti viral med prescribed to me by doctors over how many years now but I could not see any improvements in my son symptoms. One day when going through the internet , i got to know about this great Herbal Dr who uses his herbal remedies in curing people from autism,quickly i contacted him and he prepared a herbal medication for my son which i received and he used it as instructed by dr williams. After few weeks the improvement were very visible. the speech delay and the poor eye contact stopped, I would recommend this to all my friends,families,around the globe suffering from autism.you can contact him through his email on drwilliams098675@gmail.com.for advice and for his product THANKS TO YOU ONCE AGAIN ADMIN FOR SUCH AN INFORMATIVE BLOG.
2:06 PM
Jessical Alba said...
ALL THANKS TO DR WILLIAMS FOR THE GREAT DEED HE HAVE DONE FOR MY DAUGHTER?
My daughter suffered from autism for more than 2 years which we started experiencing in her when she turned 1 year and 5 months we all thought it will end but got even worse as days went by. We tried all several treatments and therapy prescribed by various doctors we met but to no avail, she lost total concentration and always complain of sensitivity to sound . She usually tells me she haves poor eyes contact. This were steady disorder that disrupted her entire life, even at night she slept less because of this.It was during a casual conversation with a friend that i learned about Dr Williams herbal medicine I was able to contact him on his email address. and give him all the necessary information that he needed,few day later he sent me the herbal portion and his medicine was able to restore her back to normal and she is very okay now without any side effects whatsoever. If you have autism, do not hesitate to contact him on drwilliams098675@gmail.com for advice and for his product. I hope this also helps someone out there
10:28 AM
LEONERDO DICAPRIO said...
SPECIAL THANKS TO DR WILLIAMS FOR THE AUTISM CURE HE
RENDER TO MY SON.
I'm giving a testimony about Dr. WILLIAMS for the great deed he have done for my family, he has
the natural cure to autism, he cured my 7 years old son from autism ,
I went through different website where I saw a testimonies about this great Dr Williams, I was like: 'Dr Williams have the autism cure why are
people still suffering from it?' I thought of it, then I contact Dr Williams, I didn't believe him that much, I just wanted to give him a try, he replied my mail and Needed some Information about my son, then I sent them to him, he prepared the (CURE) and sent it to me through Courier Service and he also give me details to the Courier Office, that i will receive the medicine between 1-3 working days,after getting the medicine from the delivering company my son started using the medicine as prescribed by Dr Williams and i took my son for check-up 1 month after finishing the medicine, then the doctor confirmed that my son is now autism free, if you are suffering from autism you can also contact him on his email address: drwilliams098675@gmail.com for his help.
11:53 PM
Unknown said...
I bet you delete comments you don't like
10:20 PM
Jessical Alba said...
ALL THANKS TO DR WILLIAMS FOR THE GREAT DEED HE HAVE DONE FOR MY DAUGHTER?
My daughter suffered from autism for more than 2 years which we started experiencing in her when she turned 1 year and 5 months we all thought it will end but got even worse as days went by. We tried all several treatments and therapy prescribed by various doctors we met but to no avail, she lost total concentration and always complain of sensitivity to sound . She usually tells me she haves poor eyes contact. This were steady disorder that disrupted her entire life, even at night she slept less because of this.It was during a casual conversation with a friend that i learned about Dr Williams herbal medicine I was able to contact him on his email address. and give him all the necessary information that he needed,few day later he sent me the herbal portion and his medicine was able to restore her back to normal and she is very okay now without any side effects whatsoever. If you have autism, do not hesitate to contact him on drwilliams098675@gmail.com for advice and for his product. I hope this also helps someone out there
4:29 AM
chirag devansh said...
Thanks to Dr Williams I am so happy today, my son have been suffering from autism for the past 8 years now, and i have spent a lot on western drugs which has all proved abortive, i have tried all means in life to get my son out of this , but there was no answer until i decided to try herbal solution and i found Dr Williams online and i contacted him and after he took his medication as instructed, my son is now completely cure from autism within those week of usage, i am so much happy, thanks to Dr Williams for helping me get my son life back again without any form of crisis, i promise to tell your name and good deeds to the whole world,if you have a son with autism you can email him on drwilliams098675@gmail.com for more information .
10:47 PM
Unknown said...
You make good points and I agree that it is important for people to learn the risks of all medical procedures along with complications that can arise from them. While scrolling through your list of references it looked to me as if most of them studied people from before 2000. According to the CDC (https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/patient-ed/conversations/downloads/vacsafe-thimerosal-color-office.pdf) the FDA removed much of the thimerosal from many vaccines. I wonder if any research has been done on populations receiving the vaccines post 2000. My final concern is the way that you presented your information on Twitter. A single tweet saying only “vaccines cause autism” seems to me that it can fuel people’s ideas that vaccines are nothing but bad, which could further the already growing problem of some preventable disease. Do you think that your tweet does not incite panic into people who get vaccines, if so why not?
3:07 PM
kate said...
As a sign of gratitude for how my son was saved from autism, i decided to reach out to those still suffering from this.
My son suffered autism in the year 2013 and it was really tough and heartbreaking for me because he was my all and the symptoms were terrible, he always have difficulty with communication,and he always complain of poor eye contact . we tried various therapies prescribed by our neurologist but none could cure him. I searched for a cure and i saw a testimony by someone who was cured and so many other with similar body problem, and they left the contact of this doctor who had the cure to autism . I never imagined autism has a natural cure not until i contacted him and he assured me my son will be fine. I got the herbal medication he recommended and my son used it and in one months time he was fully okay even up till this moment he is so full of life.autism has a cure and is a herbal cure,you contact the doctor for more info on drwilliams098675@gmail.com on how to get the medication. Thanks for reading my testimony .
8:31 AM
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Wanna Help?
Follow Me
The Highlights
Why I no longer participate in the US Immunization Program
Extended, Fair, Balanced, Live, Unedited, Mainstream Media Vaccine Debate Happens
Julie Gerberding Tells CNN that Vaccines Trigger Autism
Looking For Information on How To Vaccinate More Safely?
An Introduction to Chandler: Birth to Diagnosis
The History of Thimerosal
Here's Why the Disdain...
"No Evidence of Any Link"
Autism in God's Economy
Maine CDC Autism Conference
Contradictory Rulings in Vaccine Court
Head of AAP Lies About Vaccine Safety
Irresponsible Journalism in Autism
Matt Lauer, Anderson Cooper and George Stephanopoulos Adopt Skeptic Community/Science Media's Failing Tactics
Revisiting James Murdoch, Brian Deer, The Sunday Times, GlaxoSmithKline and the Attack on Andrew Wakefield
Bill Gates Attacks Andrew Wakefield and the Vaccine Safety Community
My Testimony to the Maine Legislature on Two Informed Consent Vaccine Bills
The Most Dangerous Question in Public Health: "What can you tell me about vaccine encephalopathy?"
The Canary Party: Done With Bad Faith
Search This Blog
About Me
Ginger Taylor
Autism Mom, Writer, Speaker, Advocate, Activist, Therapist, Conservative, Christian.
View my complete profile
E-mail Me
email
AT
adventuresinautism
DOT
com
Subscribe
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
Subscribe Via Email
Enter your Email
My Blog List
AGE OF AUTISM
The State of Herd Immunity in Maine
58 minutes ago
autism's gadfly
Problems with Adult autism and Prevalence: John Elder Robison to the rescue
1 week ago
The Refusers
The Refusers Refuse To Be Dumbed Down, A Refreshing Release – Black Velvet Magazine
2 years ago
Facing Autism in New Brunswick
October 18, 2003: Andy Scott Called for a Strong National Autism Strategy; Will October 19, 2015 Deliver A Government That Will Make It Happen?
3 years ago
The Vaccine Machine
Not a fan of Pan
4 years ago
Autism Jabberwocky
The End of the Beginning
4 years ago
My Socrates Note
Vaccines and Religion…Just Not How you Think
5 years ago
Inside Vaccines
About The Vaccine Injury Compensation Program
5 years ago
Injecting Sense
CHANGING THE PERCEPTION: DADS ARE WARRIORS TOO
6 years ago
Blog Archive
▼ 2018 (8)
► October (1)
► September (2)
▼ August (2)
My Apology For My Denial And Failure To Offer You ...
So You Saw A Meme Of A Bunny Holding A Sign That S...
► July (1)
► June (2)
► 2017 (24)
► November (4)
► October (13)
► September (2)
► April (1)
► February (1)
► January (3)
► 2016 (2)
► October (1)
► January (1)
► 2015 (12)
► December (1)
► November (1)
► September (1)
► June (1)
► May (3)
► April (4)
► March (1)
► 2014 (8)
► December (1)
► November (1)
► October (1)
► September (2)
► July (1)
► April (1)
► January (1)
► 2013 (12)
► December (1)
► August (2)
► July (3)
► June (1)
► April (1)
► March (2)
► February (2)
► 2012 (35)
► December (1)
► November (1)
► October (1)
► September (1)
► August (1)
► July (2)
► June (2)
► May (4)
► April (6)
► March (5)
► February (1)
► January (10)
► 2011 (84)
► December (4)
► November (2)
► September (5)
► August (2)
► July (2)
► June (2)
► May (5)
► April (25)
► March (15)
► February (9)
► January (13)
► 2010 (87)
► December (2)
► November (5)
► October (5)
► September (10)
► August (12)
► July (12)
► June (12)
► May (7)
► April (5)
► March (9)
► February (2)
► January (6)
► 2009 (112)
► December (7)
► November (2)
► October (13)
► September (10)
► August (10)
► July (26)
► June (6)
► May (13)
► April (10)
► March (4)
► February (2)
► January (9)
► 2008 (296)
► December (15)
► November (20)
► October (12)
► September (13)
► August (16)
► July (55)
► June (13)
► May (13)
► April (38)
► March (79)
► February (17)
► January (5)
► 2007 (196)
► December (8)
► November (3)
► October (7)
► September (5)
► August (5)
► July (38)
► June (68)
► May (26)
► April (24)
► March (2)
► February (5)
► January (5)
► 2006 (150)
► December (10)
► November (19)
► October (41)
► June (2)
► May (5)
► April (32)
► March (5)
► February (20)
► January (16)
► 2005 (314)
► December (87)
► November (48)
► October (36)
► September (23)
► August (55)
► July (13)
► June (23)
► May (14)
► April (3)
► March (1)
► February (11)
► 2004 (45)
► December (1)
► November (3)
► October (5)
► September (5)
► August (15)
► July (16)
Followers
Recommended Reading
Awesome Inc. theme. Powered by Blogger.