Carrot Juice for Eye Health - Kardy Laguda On Line
Latest:
Benefits of Health Spas
5 Foods With Hidden Sugar
Feel Good With This
Hot Black Current Kardy Party Workout
Kardy Live Around The World
Kardy Laguda On Line
The Point Where Fun Fitness Health Wealth & Life Meet
Home
About
Videos
Classes
Free Book
Health TOP STORIES
Carrot Juice for Eye Health
March 24, 2015 June 20, 2018 Coody3 477 Views carrot juice for eye health	min read
Drinking Carrot Juice for Eye Health
Carrots are a favourite vegetable among many people because they contain nutrients and vitamins that could benefit the body and eyes in several ways. They are also rich in fibre and can help in bowel movement. You can choose to either eat carrots or drink carrot juice, but you will still enjoy the immense benefits associated with the vegetable. Drinking carrot juice can provide a fun alternative way to add veggies to your diet. Eating carrots has been associated with improved eye health. Even physicians have recommended drinking carrot juice for eye health. It turns out there could be some truth to the ancient myth that carrots enable individuals to have superior vision in the dark.
Antioxidant Properties
Some forms of vitamin A like beta-carotene are found in carrot juice. Vitamin A can be a great antioxidant too. It can also protect the eye surface, thereby contributing to strong vision and improved eye health. Drinking carrot juice has been known to ward off a range of eye disorders, including popular ones like cataracts, macular degeneration, and even blindness. The lutein in carrots also has powerful antioxidant properties that help to protect the eye surface from the damaging effects of sunlight. According to studies, lutein has been associated with a reduced risk for developing particular eye disorders like macular degeneration, which can lead to loss of vision if left untreated.
Nutrients in Carrot
Another crucial nutrient, zeaxanthin, works like lutein and beta carotene to boost eye health. In fact, zeaxanthin and lutein work to minimise the risk associated with age-induced vision loss. Ideally, all the nutrients work together to improve eye vision and health. Just a single cup of grated or chopped carrots could provide up to 400 percent of the body’s vitamin A requirements. Due to the high concentration of vitamin A, carrots are often recommended by physicians to help people improve their eye vision or reduce vision loss that is often associated with ageing. Drinking a cup of carrot juice often could help avoid simple and preventable eye problems.
Vitamin A Deficiency
On the other hand, vitamin A deficiency is commonly associated with various eye issues, ranging from simple night blindness to more complex permanent blindness. In fact, Vitamin A deficiency can be regarded as the top contributor of preventable blindness globally. Without carrots and carrot juice, many people would be at a risk of developing macular degeneration and cataracts.
Should You Eat A Carrot a Day?
Indeed, the contributions of carrot juice towards improving eye health cannot be overemphasised. Eating a carrot a day or drinking carrot juice on a regular basis can prove to be beneficial in the long run. Maintaining eye vision throughout one’s life can be a difficult task, especially because of exposure to sunlight, dust and artificial light, but regular consumption of carrots can significantly reduce the rate of vision loss that comes naturally with ageing.
Regardless, while carrot juice is associated with several health and nutritional benefits, moderation is important. Juices contain little fibre and deny the colon what it needs to facilitate bowel movement. In addition, when consumed in excessive amounts, beta-carotene could potentially alter the skin color. Drinking too much of this juice could result in orange or yellowish-tinted skin.
Do Carrots Really Give You Better Eyesight?
← Eating The Vegan Way Works
Benefits of Spirulina →
Share This Post:
You May Also Like
Is Coffee a Health Food: True or false?
March 24, 2015 Coody3 Comments Off on Is Coffee a Health Food: True or false?
Eating The Vegan Way Works
March 24, 2015 Coody3 Comments Off on Eating The Vegan Way Works
Oxygenated Water
March 24, 2015 Coody3 Comments Off on Oxygenated Water
News
Exercise General Latest
Hot Black Current Kardy Party Workout
March 5, 2019 Coody3 Comments Off on Hot Black Current Kardy Party Workout min read
Hot Black Current Dance Party With Kardy Another Kardy workout goes ballistic!! I love taking people on a journey from
General Latest MIndset News
Orgonite Explained
February 21, 2019 Coody3 Comments Off on Orgonite Explained min read
General MIndset News
Meditation Tips | Can you find time in a busy schedule?
February 3, 2019 Coody3 Comments Off on Meditation Tips | Can you find time in a busy schedule? min read
General Latest MIndset News
Proof You Create Your Own Reality
December 14, 2018 Coody3 Comments Off on Proof You Create Your Own Reality min read
Essential Categories
Eating And Nutrition
Exercise
Hydration
MIndset
Sleep
Stretching & Flexibility
Technology
Wealth
Kardy Recommends
About Us
Kardy Laguda is one of the UK's top fitness professionals specialising in fitness and life balance through what he describes as "Seven Essentials" seven elements that make life amazing which is outlined in the forthcoming book.
In the meantime Try the "7 Simple Challenges" Book which is FREE when you join the Kardy's News List.
Essentials
Kardys News
Motivation
Exercise
Hydration
Technology
Health
Wealth
Sleep
Pulseroll
More Info
About
Contact Us
Class Screening Form
Testimonials
Press Info
Earnings Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Kardy’s Gift To You
Discover how to make a massive change by taking a tiny step and have fun on the way.
Copyright © 2019 Kardy Laguda On Line. All rights reserved.