Water Cooler Bald Hills
Home | Tell a Friend| Bookmark Site| Print| Contact Us
Call Prestige Water On
1800 500 334 0405 176 472
Follow Us
twitter
facebook
Toggle navigation
Home
Cooler Range
Bench Top Water Cooler
Floor Standing Water Cooler
Exclusive Water Cooler
Replacement Water Filters
Special Offers
Filtered Water Benefits
Our Filters
About Water
News
Blog
Contact Us!
Water Cooler Bald Hills
Great drinking water made from your own tap with Prestige Water Cooler Bald Hills
Benchtop Water Dispenser Bald Hills:
Floor Standing Water Dispenser Bald Hills:
Exclusive Water Dispenser Bald Hills:
How much water do we really need to drink per day
Do you drink too much water?
Do you carry a bottle of water with you throughout the day, wherever you go?
Do you think that drinking a large glass of water before a meal helps you curb your appetite?
Do you play very often, and do you get up at night because you have to pee?
Is your urine very clear throughout the day?
Do you think this is healthy?
If you have answered yes to most of the questions above, then you are likely to drink too much water. Tap water is not healthy anymore, therefore filter.
But water is essential for your health!
Lemon juice in your water - super healthy. It is indeed true. Water is healthy. It is even essential. I do not want you to think that this article is about water being bad. That is certainly not the case. Water is incredibly healthy, but in the right quantities. And if you drink too much (or too little), it can indeed be harmful. Very harmful even. If you drink too much water, then this can lead to water intoxication. Rapid intake of too much water overflows the inside of the cells when sodium becomes depleted. This sodium depletion, called hyponatremia, can rupture the cells, either by extra pressure on the cells from the outside or by pressure from engulfed cells. When cells rupture in different parts of the body, certain symptoms arise and usually also quickly. What symptoms? We are talking about symptoms such as vomiting, headache, confusion and disorientation. If you then do nothing about it and do not go to the doctor, it can even lead to, among other things, epileptic seizures and a coma. Untreated cases have led to death in the past. It must therefore be taken seriously. How much is too much?
Water
Most people who consider health important and actively involved in this are paying particular attention to their water consumption. That was also the case with me. I took a water bottle with me almost everywhere. I always had a large glass of water next to me when I was sitting at the computer. I hardly drank something other than water. Even before meals I always put two glasses of water backwards. Until I found out that I drank too much water all this time. I have also learned that too much water can cause damage for a long time before you actually end up in the danger zone where your life is at risk due to water intoxication.
Drinking too much water can lead to:
A slower metabolism
Reduced mental clarity
Headache
Insomnia
Cold hands or feet
Reduced emotional well-being
So you know, too much water can put too much pressure on your body and thereby undermine your health. Another disadvantage of drinking so much water is that you often wake up once or twice (and sometimes even more often) to go to the toilet in the middle of the night ... and during the winter that is no fun. I used to drink a lot of water because I thought I would feel better, have more energy and because I expected many other benefits. Eventually, however, I only felt better when I started drinking less water. Actually, that is also logical. There is a reason why you have certain instincts, such as thirst. Drinking water sources. Why drink glasses of water all day long while your body tells you automatically when you need something through your thirst?
But what about dehydration?
Water is important, but most of us probably do not need 8 glasses a day. Indeed, scientifically there is no real evidence that suggests that this amount has specific advantages. So if you currently drink 8 glasses a day, chances are that this is probably too much. Although this of course depends on several factors. Of course these are extreme examples of water intoxication. In general, we end up in the danger zone when we drink too much and work in more water than our kidneys can process in an hour. And for someone with very healthy kidneys, that is just less than a liter of water in an hour (so never drink more than this!). 5 Tips to drink plenty of water at the Office. Drinking too much water in rapid succession can be fatal and should always be avoided.
Prestige Water Cooler Bald Hills, Water Dispenser Bald Hills, Water Filter Bald Hills
Bald Hills
Why is Filtered Water so Important?
Home | Site Map | Special Offers | Resources | Water Coolers Brisbane | Water Coolers Sydney | Water Coolers Melbourne | Water Coolers Perth | Water Coolers Darwin | Water Coolers Rockhampton | Water Coolers Mackay | Water Coolers Adelaide | Water Filters Darwin | Water Coolers Gold Coast | Water Coolers Canberra | Water Coolers Cairns | Filtered Water Benefits | Print this page | RSS | Top of page
Phone: 1800 500 334
Address: Australia
Copyright © 2019 Prestige Water
Designed by Bloomtools