Vitamin C - Mayo Clinic
Skip to main navigation
Skip to main content
This content does not have an English version.
This content does not have an Arabic version.
Search
Request an Appointment
Find a Doctor
Find a Job
Give Now
Log in to Patient Account
English
Español
Português
العربية
中文
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
YouTube
English
Español
Português
العربية
中文
Menu
Search
All Mayo Clinic Topics
Patient Care & Health Info
Overview
Healthy Lifestyle
Symptoms A-Z
Diseases & Conditions A-Z
Tests & Procedures A-Z
Drugs & Supplements A-Z
Appointments
Patient & Visitor Guide
Billing & Insurance
Patient Online Services
Quality CareFind out why Mayo Clinic is the right place for your health care. Make an appointment.
Departments & Centers
Overview
Doctors & Medical Staff
Medical Departments & Centers
International Services
Research Centers & Programs
About Mayo Clinic
Contact Us
Meet the StaffFind a directory of doctors and departments at all Mayo Clinic campuses. Visit now.
Research
Overview
Explore Research Labs
Find Clinical Trials
Research Faculty
Postdoctoral Fellowships
Discovery's Edge Magazine
Search Publications
Training Grant Programs
Research and Clinical TrialsSee how Mayo Clinic research and clinical trials advance the science of medicine and improve patient care. Explore now.
Education
Overview
Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science
Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences
Mayo Clinic Alix School of Medicine
Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development
Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education
Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences
Alumni Center
Visit Our SchoolsEducators at Mayo Clinic train tomorrow’s leaders to deliver compassionate, high-value, safe patient care. Choose a degree.
For Medical Professionals
Overview
Provider Relations
Referring Physician Portal
AskMayoExpert
Video Center
Publications
Continuing Medical Education
Mayo Clinic Laboratories
Professional ServicesExplore Mayo Clinic's many resources and see jobs available for medical professionals. Get updates.
Products & Services
Overview
Health Books
Healthy Living Program
International Advisory Services
Sports Medicine
Licensable Content
Mayo Clinic Health Letter
Mayo Clinic Laboratories
Mayo Clinic Voice Apps
Medical Products and Stores
Giving to Mayo Clinic
Overview
Give Now
Philanthropy in Action
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us to Give
Philanthropy at Mayo ClinicYour support accelerates powerful innovations in patient care, research and education. Give today.
Vitamin C
Print
Sections
Products and services
Free E-newsletter
Subscribe to Housecall
Our general interest e-newsletter keeps you up to date on a wide variety of health topics.
Sign up now
Vitamin C
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Overview
Vitamin C (ascorbic acid) is a vitamin your body needs to form blood vessels, cartilage, muscle and collagen in bones. Vitamin C is also vital to your body's healing process.
An antioxidant, vitamin C might help protect your cells against the effects of free radicals — molecules produced when your body breaks down food or is exposed to tobacco smoke and radiation. Free radicals might play a role in heart disease, cancer and other diseases. Vitamin C also helps your body absorb and store iron.
Because your body doesn't produce vitamin C, you need to get it from your diet. Vitamin C is found in citrus fruits, berries, potatoes, tomatoes, peppers, cabbage, Brussels sprouts, broccoli and spinach. Vitamin C is also available as an oral supplement, typically in the form of capsules and chewable tablets.
People with gastrointestinal conditions and some types of cancer might be susceptible to vitamin C deficiency. Vitamin C is also used to increase iron absorption from the gastrointestinal tract. Severe vitamin C deficiency can lead to a disease characterized by anemia, bleeding gums, bruising and poor wound healing (scurvy). If you take vitamin C for its antioxidant properties, keep in mind that the supplement might not offer the same benefits as naturally occurring antioxidants in food.
The recommended daily amount of vitamin C for adult men is 90 milligrams and for adult women is 75 milligrams.
Evidence
Research on the use of vitamin C for specific conditions shows:
Cancer. Eating a diet rich in fruits and vegetables might lower your risk of many types of cancer, such as breast, colon and lung cancers. However, it's not clear whether this protective effect is related to the vitamin C content in the food. Taking oral vitamin C supplements doesn't appear to offer the same benefit.
Common cold. Taking oral vitamin C supplements won't prevent the common cold. However, there's some evidence that when people who regularly take vitamin C supplements get a cold, the illness lasts fewer days and symptoms are less severe. Starting a vitamin C supplement only after you develop a cold is of no help.
Eye diseases. Taking oral vitamin C supplements in combination with other vitamins and minerals seems to prevent age-related macular degeneration (AMD) from worsening. Some studies also suggest that people who have higher levels of vitamin C in their diets have a lower risk of developing cataracts.
Our take
Generally safe
Most people get enough vitamin C from a balanced diet. However, people with gastrointestinal conditions and some types of cancer might be susceptible to vitamin C deficiency and benefit from the use of oral supplements. Taking vitamin C supplements also might have other protective benefits.
Safety and side effects
When taken at appropriate doses, oral vitamin C supplements are generally considered safe. Side effects tend to be dose-related. Oral vitamin C supplements can cause:
Nausea
Vomiting
Heartburn
Inflammation that might damage the esophagus (esophagitis)
A blockage that keeps food or liquid from passing through your small intestine or large intestine (intestinal obstruction)
Stomach cramps
Fatigue
Headache
Sleepiness
Diarrhea
Insomnia
Skin flushing
In some people, oral use of vitamin C can cause kidney stones. Long-term use of oral vitamin C supplements over 2,000 milligrams a day increases the risk of significant side effects.
Tell your doctor that you're taking vitamin C supplements before having any medical tests. High levels of vitamin C might interfere with the results of certain tests, such as stool tests for occult blood or glucose screening tests.
Interactions
Possible interactions include:
Aluminum. Taking vitamin C can increase your absorption of aluminum from medications containing aluminum, such as phosphate binders. This can be harmful for people with kidney problems.
Chemotherapy. There is concern that use of antioxidants, such as vitamin C, during chemotherapy might reduce the drug's effect.
Estrogen. Taking vitamin C with oral contraceptive or hormone replacement therapy might increase your estrogen levels.
Protease inhibitors. Oral use of vitamin C might reduce the effect of these antiviral drugs.
Statins and niacin. Taking vitamin C with niacin, which might benefit people with high cholesterol, could reduce niacin's effect.
Warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven). High doses of vitamin C might reduce your response to this anticoagulant.
Share
Tweet
Oct. 18, 2017
References
Vitamin C — Fact sheet for health professionals. Office of Dietary Supplements. https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminC-HealthProfessional/. Accessed Aug. 10, 2017.
Vitamin C — Fact sheet for consumers. Office of Dietary Supplements. https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminC-Consumer/. Accessed Aug. 10, 2017.
Vitamin C. Natural Medicines. https://naturalmedicines.therapeuticresearch.com. Accessed Sept. 29, 2017.
Pazirandeh S, et al. Overview of water-soluble vitamins. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/search. Accessed Aug. 14, 2017.
Hemila H, et al. Vitamin C for preventing and treating the common cold. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD000980.pub4/full. Accessed Aug. 16, 2017.
Vitamin C. Facts & Comparisons eAnswers. http://www.wolterskluwercdi.com/facts-comparisons-online/. Accessed Aug. 14, 2017.
Duyff RL. Use supplements wisely. In: Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Complete Food and Nutrition Guide. 5th ed. New York, N.Y.: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt; 2017.
Ascorbic acid. Micromedex 2.0 Healthcare Series. http://www.micromedexsolutions.com. Accessed Aug. 22, 2017.
Advertisement
Mayo Clinic does not endorse companies or products. Advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission.
Advertising & Sponsorship
Policy
Opportunities
Ad Choices
Mayo Clinic Marketplace
Check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from Mayo Clinic.
The Mayo Clinic Diet Combo
4 simple steps to a joy-filled life
Live stronger, longer and healthier
Stop osteoporosis in its tracks
FREE TRIAL — Mayo Clinic Health Letter
Other Topics in Patient Care & Health Info
Healthy Lifestyle
Symptoms A-Z
Diseases & Conditions A-Z
Tests & Procedures A-Z
Drugs & Supplements A-Z
Appointments
Patient & Visitor Guide
Billing & Insurance
Patient Online Services
.
ART-20363932
Vitamin C
Mayo Clinic Footer
Legal Conditions and Terms
Any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy linked below.
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Notice of Privacy Practices
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Manage Cookies
Advertising
Mayo Clinic is a nonprofit organization and proceeds from Web advertising help support our mission. Mayo Clinic does not endorse any of the third party products and services advertised.
Advertising and sponsorship policy
Advertising and sponsorship opportunities
Reprint Permissions
A single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "Mayo," "Mayo Clinic," "MayoClinic.org," "Mayo Clinic Healthy Living," and the triple-shield Mayo Clinic logo are trademarks of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.
© 1998-2019 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER). All rights reserved.