Caffeine belly fat is associated more with weight gain than with weight loss - Lose BellyFat Stay Slim
Lose BellyFat Stay Slim
How to Lose Weight and Belly Fat to stay slim
Skip to content
Home
Contact Us
News
Visitor’s Feed back
Caffeine belly fat is associated more with weight gain than with weight loss
Caffeine belly fat is a term we will use to refer to belly fat resulting from caffeine use. Caffeine is usually an ingredient in weight loss tablets and has long been known to increase metabolism.You are probably ware that caffeine is also found in coffee.
We will discuss briefly how caffeine affects your weight when you take your mug of coffee or chocolate everday. caffeine is included in most fat burning diet pills and because it is a stimulant, it’s thought to increase fat metabolism and encourage weight loss and belly fat loss . Some people believe a daily cup of coffee or other caffeinated drink can help them to lose belly fat.
Although caffeine is included in several drinks it is not a safe fat loss substance as it is often responsible for many of the factors contributing to weight gain and continued obesity. The intake of caffeine appears to increase the signs of physical stress, mental stress and emotional stress among others. This makes you to have increased levels of the glucocorticoids such as cortisol.
There is a well documented relationship between persistently elevated levels of cortisol and other stress hormones. Persistently elevated levels of cortisol are associated with the caffeine belly fat which which ultimately ends up as obesity due to increased intake of excess calories in the foods we eat, particularly increased ingestion of fats and sugars.
Caffeine stimulates the adrenal glands to produce the stress hormones called cortisol, epinephrine and norepinephrine.
Guarana is another caffeine-like product used in weight loss supplements. caffeine and guarana will lead to high levels of cortisol. These levels have have a negative effect on the part of the brain responsible for memory. They also dampen the immune system and interfere with the body’s ability to fight infections such as bacterial and viral infections. Cortisol, epinephrine and norepinephrine are responsible for increased heart rate and blood pressure. Circulation of oxygen to the brain and extremities is decreased and the immune system is suppressed.
Chronically elevated blood cortisol levels caused by frequent stress or regular coffee intake leads to an increased buildup of caffeine belly fat which results in excess weight gain.
This type of weight gain further stimulates the release of additional stress hormones. This becomes a cascade of events repeating itself severally.Instead of fat burning we have increased fat gain and weight gain.
Caffeine triggers food cravings and increased appetite.Caffeine makes you to desire to eat more food with higher fat content. caffeine causes you to have increased caloric intake, further interfering with your ability to maintain a healthy weight. It leads to what we have referred to above as caffeine-belly fat.
Drinking coffee has been linked to higher levels of serum cholesterol.
You should therefore not depend on weight loss supplements, weight loss tablets,weight loss diets, diet carbonated drinks that contain caffeine if you really want to loses weight.
Lose BellyFat Stay Slim
© All rights reserved.
Powered by WordPress
Search for:
Archives
Archives
Training course
1,000 Lowfat Recipes (1,000 Recipes Series)
1,001 Low-Fat Vegetarian Recipes: Delicious, Easy-to-Make, Healthy Meals for Everyone
12 Best habits to trim belly fat
10,000 Steps a Day to Your Optimal Weight: Walk Your Way to Better Health
12 Weight loss tips you need to shrink your waistline
Advanta Supplements Omega3 Fish Oil, 60 Softgels (Pharmaceutical Grade Omega-3)
belly fat loss
Heather’s Tummy Fiber POUCH Organic Acacia 16 oz. for Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Best food for breakfast and calories to lose weight
Kirkland Signature Enteric Coated Fish Oil Omega 3 1200 MG Fish Oil, 684 MG of Omega 3 Fatty Acids, 180 softgels
Best foods that you can eat to lose weight
Best Low glycemic index foods for weight loss
MRM CLA 1250 High Potency,180 Softgels
boost metabolism naturally and burn belly fat
natural fiber supplement
Burn belly fat as you eat foods that you already know
Nicorette Gum Starter Kit, Original, 4 mg, 110 Count Box
Caffeine belly fat is associated more with weight gain than with weight loss
Nordic Naturals Omega-3 Lemon by Nordic Pure
Choice between weight loss and safe fat loss is yours to decide
Nutricology Dietary Fiber Celllulose, 250-Grams (8.8 ozs)
Cholesterol lowering with nonprescription supplements
Olympian Labs CLA, 3000 mg per serving, 30 Servings, (Pack of 2)
Complex carbohydrates
Optimum nutrition
Contact Us
Optimum Nutrition Flaxseed Oil 1000mg, 200 Softgels
Disclaimer
The High-Protein Cookbook: More than 150 healthy and irresistibly good low-carb dishes that can be on the table in thirty minutes or less
Do fat blockers really cause belly fat loss?
Drinking water to lose belly fat
Ephedra weight loss is not safe
Find an exercise routine that suits your body type for ultimate fitness
Foods low in carbs could aleviate insulin insensitity and increase weight loss
500 Low Glycemic Index Recipes: Fight Diabetes and Heart Disease, Lose Weight and Have Optimum Energy with Recipes That Let You Eat the Foods You Enjoy
Guarana in weight loss supplements
Home
How belly fat lose and stress are connected
How chromium and insulin influence the extent of your insulin resistance
How Insulin and diet relationship can be used to control type 2 diabetes
How the South Beach Diet help you to lose as much weight as you want
HOW WALKING OR RUNNING TO LOSE BELLY FAT CAN CHANGE YOUR LIFE
INSULIN RESISTANCE AND ACCUMULATION OF BELLY FAT
Link Exchange
lose weight with best weight loss diets
Low fat diet is a must for a long term success in weight loss
Mistakes to Avoid If You Want To Eliminate Stomach Fat
News
Obesity and diabetes are linked to insulin resistance
questions on weight loss and belly fat loss
Overcome obesity with planned weight loss and also quit smoking
Raw food diet with foods that help to lose weight could speed up belly fat loss
Simple Yet Effective Ways To Flatten Belly Fat
Sleep deprivation complicates fat lose and cause weight gain
Stop smoking to stay well and fit
Success in Weight loss with body mass index and to waist to hip ratio
Sugar addiction and weight loss
The Author and Weight Loss
The connection of Type 2 diabetes with insulin insensitivity and obesity
To lose visceral fat you you will need to stop night time eating
Use low glycemic index foods to lose belly fat and control insulin resistance
Use the cabbage soup diet to burn fat and lose weight
Visitor’s Feed back
Walking essentials and their benifits
Watch over how much coffee you take everyday
Weight loss exercise
Weight loss may depend on the size of your dinner plate
What people ignore about easy weight loss
What You Can Do To Burn Visceral Fat
Why a pedometer is required during walking, running and jogging for weight loss
Why you should lose belly fat
You can lose weight on fast foods if you learn how
Your blood glucose levels could be a cause for low energy and ineffective loss of belly fat
Your Choice of Weight loss foods and counting calories to lose weight