Do Cell Phones Cause Brain Cancer? – YouTube – Radiation Report Blog
Facebook Twitter Google+
Menu
Home
About Us
Radiation Report Email News Updates
Terms of Use
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Home
>
Cell Phone Radiation Brain Tumors
>
Do Cell Phones Cause Brain Cancer? – YouTube
Do Cell Phones Cause Brain Cancer? – YouTube
Joshua October 12, 2011 Cell Phone Radiation Brain Tumors No Comments
Please Share
If cell phones did cause cancer would you expect the cancer industry to admit it? If you’re thinking “there’s no such industry” you may be missing the way science is dictated by funding – follow the money and you’ll see what the ‘cancer industry’ really is…
Fact is – it takes quite some time for cancer to develop no matter what the cause. Couple that with the fact that the industry has marginalized research into finding chemical causes for cancer for decades so why not for electro-magnetic cause? They’d rather you not even think about where cancer comes from – and just focus on the three standard treatments which make the ‘cancer industry’ billions of dollars per year.
This article explains how some of this research is skewed… What do you think?
-Joshua
Do cellphones cause cancer?
Let’s start with this one from MacClean’s.ca: “Despite mounting concerns that cell phones may cause cancer, a new study—a major review of previously published research by a committee of international experts—concluded there was no convincing evidence the devices cause cancer, Reuters reports. It also found a lack of biological mechanisms by which a phone’s radio signals could trigger tumours.”
Now, for the other side of the buzz from News.com: “In a report issued today, the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), which is an arm of the WHO, said it now lists mobile phone use in the same category as lead, gasoline engine exhaust, and chloroform. Officially, cell phone radiation is listed as a ‘carcinogenic hazard.’ “
Confused? Let’s sort out the buzz from both sides.
First, there is a trend to the results of the studies. Most, if not all, studies that were funded by the cell phone or telecommunications industry have found that cell phones are not linked or associated with cancer. Is that surprise?
On the other hand, the majority of independent studies, those not funded by the cell phone industry, have found a strong link or association between cell phones and cancer, especially brain cancer. Are the results a coincidence?
Now, let’s go back to the tobacco industry of a few decades ago. Back then, every single study funded by the tobacco industry found no causal relationship between cigarettes and lung cancer. We now know otherwise. In fact, for a brief period, the tobacco industry was using doctors to promote their cigarettes as a healthy way to relief stress.
So, is the cell phone industry the tobacco industry of the 21st century? Let’s do some research.
Some cell phones are now coming with warning labels, such as:
“This device emits electromagnetic radiation, exposure to which may cause brain cancer. Users, especially children and pregnant women, should keep this device away from the head and body.”
And From alphabiocentrix.com: “Studies with mammals show that EMR transmitted from cell phones creates portals in the Blood-Brain Barrier big enough to allow large albumin molecules to pass through and begin to pool around the ganglia of brain cells. Not only does this accumulation of albumin impede intercellular communication in the brain, but researchers are concerned that the portals that will allow such large molecules to pass across the protective Blood-Brain Barrier would also allow a host of smaller, more brain-toxic substances into the brain as well.”
From Discovery.com: “In an experiment conducted by Dr. Ashok Agarwal, of the Cleveland Clinic, two groups of men were tested for the effects of cell phone exposure on sperm count. One group formed the control group, and the other was the test group. The test group was exposed to cell phones set in talk mode in close proximity to their bodies for one hour. The men were tested both before and after their exposure to cell phone radiation. At the end of the experiment, not only did the test group show a decrease in their sperm counts, they also demonstrated a significant increase in their production of free radicals.”
Himmm. Exposure to radiation, such as those from cell phones, can open the blood brain barrier. We have electronic radiation, blood brain barrier (BBB), and free radicals. That’s quite a load. So, let’s do some more research on them.
Trisha Vergo
View the original article here
Related Posts
WHO Cell Phone Report Worried About Cell Phone and Computer Use During Pregnancy? Here …
Planet News Article, Jackson Hole Wy | Handheld Hazards | 3/30/2011
Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer or Not? The Latest Answer Is No
You haven’t really made it if you carry a cell phone
About The Author
Joshua
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser.
Get more stuff
Subscribe to our mailing list and get interesting stuff and updates to your email inbox.
Thank you for subscribing.
we respect your privacy and take protecting it seriously
Follow Me
Popular
Recent
Comments
Tags
Helpful Links:
www.Green8Gold.com
www.ElectroDetox.com
www.FutureFrequency.com
Contact Us
Name
Email
Message
Radiation Report Blog Copyright © 2019. All rights reserved.
Home
About Us
Radiation Report Email News Updates
Terms of Use
Contact Us
Privacy Policy