How To Get Rid of Nausea : Excellent and Effective Tips!
StylEnrich
Organic Home Remedies & DIY Beauty Tips!
Menu
Beauty & Makeup
DIY Homemade
Health & Wellness
Home Remedies
Superfoods & Recipes
Home
Home Remedies
Excellent Tips to Control Nausea!
Home Remedies
Excellent Tips to Control Nausea!
Anamika Samantaray April 12, 2017
Nausea is a common symptom and we all have experienced it some or other time in our life. There is no particular reason of nausea, it just happens. It comes and goes away. But, do you know how to get rid of nausea using home remedies?
Nausea can be defined as a state of uneasiness or sickness in which the person is extremely uncomfortable. It is a tendency to vomit and the experience is terrible.
There are several reasons of nausea which include acidity, morning sickness, dehydration etc. Some people even experience it during hairpin turns and uneven roads which mostly results in vomiting. Most women experience it during their pregnancy.
It requires medical attention if one is suffering from Nausea all the time, however, if it comes occasionally than rather than having medicines and increasing the acidity influx in the body, it is better to follow some remedies and simple tips at home to get rid of nausea.
How To Get Rid of Nausea?
1. Stay Hydrated
One of the reasons for Nausea is dehydration. Hence sticking to the basic routine of drinking 8-10 glasses will hydrate the body and you will experience less nausea.
Also, include other liquids such as ice cold water, lemon juice and coconut water. Hydrating helps to remove the toxins from the stomach and also the acidity influx in the stomach will be less. This will help to prevent nausea and uneasiness.
Read on to know more about why water is good for you…
2. Eat Right
Yes, you heard it right!! Although, people suffering from nausea refrain from eating and it is the last thing they would like to do on earth, however, eat the right thing. You can select the food which is friendly for your stomach and prevents nausea. Foods like watermelon or any other fruit really helps.
You can select the food which is friendly for your stomach and prevents nausea. Foods like watermelon or any other fruit really help. Try not to eat fried and greasy food as the first thing in the morning as it may force you to nauseate.
3. Eat In Chunks
If you nauseate after eating, then avoid heavy meals. Try to eat in chunks. Start with something light and less in quantity.
Slowly, once you feel better and there is no nausea, increase the food intake throughout the day. This method will help to control nausea and eating several squares of meal in a day is good for health.
4. How To Get Rid of Nausea Using Ginger?
Ginger has been found to be great for stomach and really helps when you nauseate. Sip on ginger tea during nausea. It provides instant relief and reduces uneasiness.
How to Prepare Ginger Tea?
Ingredients
Fresh raw ginger
Water
Method
Take fresh raw ginger and cut a small piece of it
Wash it properly and crush it slightly.
Add the crushed ginger to hot boiling water.
Let it boil for few minutes and allow it to steep for some time.
Strain the liquid and drink it as a hot tea.
In case of nausea, it is ideal to follow this method as and when required. It is effective and soothes the stomach.
Here, we are giving you the health benefits of ginger that you won’t believe!
5. Do Not Pay Attention
Distract yourself when you nauseate. Nausea is a tendency and the more you try to think of it, the more likely that you will nauseate. Therefore as a simple tip, just distract your mind from it. Indulge yourself in reading or go out for a walk, play games.
Mind is an important factor in nausea. Just think about something else and it will helps to control nausea.
6. Take Rest
Taking rest is one of the ideal and best solutions if you are suffering from nausea. Just lie down and take rest or sleep for some time. It is also advisable for people who are on a journey and nauseate.
Just close your eyes and sleep for some time and once you wake up, nausea will be gone and you will feel fresh and active. Try this method, it really works.
7. Breathe Fresh Air
It is important to get fresh air during nausea. Sit outside or find a place in your balcony to lie down and rest and feel the breeze.
An artificial method would be to blow a fan on your face. Lie down or sit in front of a table fan and feel the fan blowing air to your face. This will make you feel more pleasant and help to get rid of nausea.
Always remember, that if it is hot and you are sweating, it will only contribute to accelerate the nausea factor and you will feel very uneasy at times which may result in vomiting in the worst case.
8. How To Get Rid of Nausea With Cold Compress?
Cold compress works well during nausea.
Take an ice pack and apply the same on the back portion of the neck. Repeat this method several times and you will get instant relief from nausea.
You can make ice pack easily at home. Take few ice cubes and place it in a clean cloth. Place the cloth on the back of the neck.
You can also soak a cloth in ice cold water. Squeeze the excess water from it and keep the cloth on the back of your neck.
Let’s see what are the home remedies for cold...
9. How To Get Rid of Nausea Using Fresh Lemon?
This citrus fruit does wonders for you during nausea.
The smell of lemon instantly fades away nausea and eases you.
Cut small slices of lemon and hold the lemon slice in your hand. Smell the lemon slices in regular interval to get rid of nausea instantly. Inhale and exhale completely and after 10 rounds of this process, you will be at ease.
You can also drink a glass of fresh lemon juice to control nausea.
10. Bread and Milk To Getting Rid of Nausea
Bread and milk is considered to be an ideal breakfast when it comes to nausea.
Boil milk in a container and dip bread slices into it. Eat this slowly and you will not nauseate any more.
It is ideal for the stomach and gets digested quickly. However remember, do not try to consume very hot milk. Bring it to room temperature and then consume it.
As a caution, so not consume bread and milk if you are suffering from gastric problems.
Conclusion
In nausea, mind matters the most. Therefore, it is always better to indulge in small things and divert your mind. Try the above tips which will definitely help to control nausea. If you nauseate frequently, it is always better to seek medical attention.
Hope you have found this article on “how to get rid of nausea” useful. In case of any feedback or suggestion, please share the same in the comments section below.
Prev Article
Next Article
Related Articles
How can you forget curry leaves when you have to …
Benefits of Curry Leaves For Health and Hair Care!
Chickenpox is a contagious disease which is caused by a …
Excellent Home Remedies To Get Rid Of Chicken Pox!
Turmeric which is a deep yellow slice is a magic …
Best Ways of Using Turmeric For Skin You Must Know!
Are you embarrassed to flaunt those open sandals in public? …
How To Heal Cracked Heels Using Home Remedies?
Almonds are one of the most wonderful nuts, which are …
Interesting Health Benefits of Almond Milk You Did Not Know About!
Bed sores or blisters are a common condition for people …
Wonder Home Remedies For Bed Sores!
Have you ever thought of having meals without salt? Yes, …
Salt – Is It A Healthy or Harmful To Health?
Brahmi or the Indian Pennywort is an Ayurvedic herb that …
Benefits of Brahmi (Indian Pennywort) For Health And Beauty!
Various kinds of spreads have existed in every culture depending …
Peanut Butter Nutrition Facts and its Amazing Benefits!
Crow’s feet are an indication that a person is aging. …
10 Effective Home Remedies for Crow’s Feet!
About The Author
Anamika Samantaray
I am an avid follower of natural home remedies and DIY beauty tips. Originally from Orissa, I am am currently stationed in Bengaluru, India. I am also a passionate traveller. Gathering knowledge about the hidden herbal gems from our kitchen and home garden is what I love the most. I am here to share my research about health, beauty and wellness with the world.
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Search for Organic Tips
Explore Categories
Home Remedies
Beauty & Makeup
DIY Homemade
Health & Wellness
Superfoods & Recipes
StylEnrich
Organic Home Remedies & DIY Beauty Tips!
Also See
Home
About StylEnrich
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Must Read
Home Remedies
Beauty & Makeup
DIY Homemade
Health & Wellness
Superfoods & Recipes
Disclaimer
StylEnrich.com does not give any medical advice. All the content published in our site is strictly for informational purpose. We strongly recommend that you consult your medical adviser before trying any home remedy or tips given in our website.
Copyright © 2019 StylEnrich
Ad Blocker Detected
Our website is made possible by displaying online advertisements to our visitors. Please consider supporting us by disabling your ad blocker.
Refresh