Diet Soft Drinks have Higher Diabetes Risk | Nurture Your Own
Nurture Your Own
Eat Healthy, Be Healthy
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About
Contact Us
Write For Us
Privacy Policy
Diet Soft Drinks have Higher Diabetes Risk
Leave a reply
The Institut Nationaal de la Sante dt de la Recherche Medicale (Inserm or National Institute of health and Medical Research in French) said “Contrary to conventional thinking, the risk of diabetes is higher with ‘light’ beverages than with ‘regular’ sweetened drinks”
Inserm researchers, led by Dr Francoise Clavel-Chapelon and Gr Guy Fagherazzi, looked at the prevalence of diabetes among women who drank drinks sweetened with ordinary sugar or artificial sweeteners, and those who drank only unsweetened fruit juice.Compared with juice-drinkers , women who drank either type of sweeted drinks had a higher incidence of diabetes.Drinkers of ‘light’ soft drinks had an even higher risk of diabetes compared with those who drank regular soft drinks: 15% higher for consumption of 500ml per week, and 59% higher for consumption of 1.5 litre per week.
The study found no increase in diabetes risk among women who drank only 100% per cent fruit juice, compared with non-consumers.
The authors noted that women who drank ‘light” soft drinks tended to drink more of it – 2.8 glasses a week on average – than 1.6 glasses among women on regular soft drinks.
Its authors admitted the study had limitations. The study took account of the women’s ages and weights, but did not keep close tracks of their eating habits during the study period. The study took account of the women’s ages and weights but did not keep close track of their eating habits during the study period.
Researchers conceded the evidence was not sufficient “to advise people to stop consumption of one or the other type of drinks”.
Related posts:
Higher Risk of Getting PMS for Woman Smoker
Is Diet Soft Drink Healthier?
New Study Supports Vegetarian Diet
This entry was posted in Healthy Eating and tagged diabetes, diet soft drinks on 12 March, 2013 by Vivienne Quek.
Post navigation
← Coca Cola is a Major Cause in a Woman’s Death Decoding Nutrition Information: Fat Claims →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
CAPTCHA Code *
Hot Topics
aloe vera
asian Avian bird flu
baby eczema
bilateral isokinematic training
bird flu pandemic
calcium
cure eczema
depression
diabetes
Diet
Eczema
eczema cure
eczema cures
Eczema treatment
emotions
fats
flat tummy
flu epidemic
flu shots
Food
hair mask
headache
health
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle
heart disease
herpes
Myths about Milk
natural hair mask
nutrition
Obesity
recovery
sleep
Slimming
smoking
sprouting
Sprouts
Stroke
stroke rehab
Swine Flu
swine flu symptoms
swine flu vaccine
Swine influenza
viagra
Weight-loss
Other Information
Proudly powered by WordPress