Himalayan Salt Lamps And Your Health - Holistic Hormone Help
Holistic Nutritionist sharing women's health tips, vegan recipes, and online nutrition services.
Toggle Navigation
Home
Women’s Health
Recipes
Breakfast
Snacks
Sauces, Spreads, & Dips
Salads
Appetizers & Sides
Entrées
Dessert
Drinks
Healthy Plant Based Meal Plan
Vegan Ice Cream Recipe Book!
Nutrition Services
Custom Meal Planning
Nutrition Consultations
Hormone, Food Sensitivty, and Leaky Gut Testing
Cart
Checkout
Contact Me
Himalayan Salt Lamps And Your Health
Himalayan salt lamps are a beautiful addition to your home, but they aren’t just for ambiance. While they look beautiful, they also have fantastic benefits for your body, health, and hormones! Some possible benefits include improved sleep, improved mood, and more.
How Do They Work?
Increases Negative Ions
The main reason that Himalayan Salt Lamps work is that they increase the amount of negative ions in your home environment. Negative ions are naturally found in nature and are produced by trees, bodies of water, waterfalls, etc… The positive feeling we get after spending time in nature provides health and hormonal benefits.
Most rooms are filled with positively charged ions which aren’t particularly good for a person’s health or hormones. Positive ions are created by a number of things, but the main source is from electronics such as cell phones, computers, TVs, etc… When heated by the light bulb, Himalayan Salt Lamps absorb positive ions. Then, when the heated salt releases cleansed water vapor back into the air, it expels negative ions which have the opposite effect on the body.
An increase in negative ions and a decrease in positive ions can lead to many possible benefits such as:
Improved mood
Increased blood flow to the brain
Better mental clarity
Improved sleep
Increased energy levels
Increased relaxation and reduced stress
Reduced blood pressure
Reduced exposure to xenoestrogens and environmental pollutants
Can help to treat depression
Can help treat seasonal affective disorder
Air Purification
One of the main reasons people purchase salt lamps is due to their incredible power to remove dust, pollen, cigarette smoke, and other contaminants in the air. Himalayan salt lamps are able to do this because they attract water molecules from the surrounding environment then absorb those molecules, as well as any foreign particles they may be carrying, into the salt crystal. When the crystal lamp becomes warm due to the light bulb, that same water then evaporates back into the air and the pollutants remain trapped in the salt. Furthermore, breathing in positive ions causes the cilia that line our windpipe to become sluggish and don’t work as well to keep contaminants out of the lungs.
Reducing your exposure to environmental chemicals and xenoestrogens is critical for keeping hormones in balance. We can do as much as we can to keep hormones balanced such as sleep well, eat well, etc… but environmental chemicals are something we can’t control. At the very least we can try and reduce our exposure, and salt lamps are a fantastic option for that.
Since the lamps remove pollutants of dust, pet dander, mold, mildew, etc… from the surrounding air, placing a lamp in the rooms where you spend the most time can also reduce allergy symptoms. They have also been proven to be beneficial for those with asthma.
Ambiance
In addition to generating negative ions which improve mood and energy levels, the soft, natural light given off by a Himalayan Salt Lamp is similar to the warm glow of sunshine, therefore they can even be used to relieve the symptoms of Seasonal Affective Disorder, and can also improve mood and reduce stress.
How To Choose A Salt Lamp
To decide on a salt lamp for the space in your home, the size is the most important factor. Large lamps are better for larger rooms. Smaller lamps are good for the average bedroom, while larger lamps are better for spaces like the living room. On average, calculate that 1 lb of crystal will cleanse the air in approximately a 4′ x 4′ area.
Salt Lamps function when the light inside of it is turned on. They use very little electricity, so keeping them plugged in all day, even when you’re not home, will provide the best benefits. Most people sleep best in complete darkness so turn it off at night to get the best sleep benefits.
Diet, exercise, and lifestyle habits are still the most important factors when trying to address hormonal health concerns. However, salt Lamps are an easy and inexpensive way to give your body a little extra help and happiness.
For personal nutrition advice or any questions on this article, you can contact me at kathyrhn@gmail.com
Advertisements
Like this:
Like Loading...
Are there toxins in feminine hygiene products?
Evening Primrose: The Cure All For Hormonal Problems?
3 thoughts on “Himalayan Salt Lamps And Your Health”
christiansweightsuccess.net says:
November 24, 2016 at 11:37 am
My friend has one of these
Loading...
Reply
Jaon says:
November 14, 2017 at 11:16 pm
Himalayan salt lamps very effective and healthy for your body. They create nagtive ions and relaxing your body.
Loading...
Reply
Kathy Chrzaszcz RHN says:
November 15, 2017 at 4:09 pm
yes I have mine on every day! 🙂
Loading...
Reply
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts and recipes.
Join 270 other subscribers
Email Address
Follow
NEW e-book available now!
Follow On Instagram
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new recipes and posts by email.
Email Address
Subscribe
Follow On Facebook
Follow On Facebook
Copyright © 2018 Kathy Chrzaszcz
Kale by LyraThemes.com.
%d bloggers like this: