Home Remedy Network – Supplement Review – Does Osteo Bi-Flex Work | Home Remedy Network
Home Remedy Network
Menu
Home
Policies
Disclosure
Privacy Policy
Contact us
Home Remedy Network
Health And Wellness Tips & Information
Menu
Home
Policies
Disclosure
Privacy Policy
Contact us
Home Remedy Network – Supplement Review – Does Osteo Bi-Flex Work
Arthritis pain relief is something that many Americans seek as they age. This article “Home Remedy Network – Supplement Review – Does Osteo Bi-Flex Work” looks at one of the most popular products on the market and its’ pros and cons. There are also links to other arthritis pain relief resources below for you to learn more.
Home Remedy Network – Supplement Review – Does Osteo Bi-Flex Work
Home Remedy Network – Supplement Review – Does Osteo Bi-Flex Work
Home Remedy Network – Supplement Review – Does Osteo Bi-Flex Work – What is Osteo Bi- Flex
Osteo Bi-Flex is a product that like many on the market offers users relief from arthritis pain. It is manufactured by:
Swanson Health Products, Inc.
4075 40th Ave S, Fargo, ND 58104-3912
Phone: (701) 277-1662Fax: (701) 356-2708
www.swansonvitamins.com
Swanson Health Products offers a wide variety of health products. The one we want to focus on in this article is Osteo Bi-Flex which according to the website,http://www.osteobiflex.com/:
“Whether age or overuse has led you to seek joint support, Osteo Bi-Flex® will have the formula that is right for you.* Osteo Bi-Flex® products start with 1500 mg high-quality Glucosamine† to help revitalize cartilage, ease occasional joint stress, and nourish the joint matrix.* Each specific Osteo Bi-Flex® formula is designed to address a variety of joint health concerns, as well as enhance your particular lifestyle and support how you use your joints.* Choose from caplets or powders to fit your individual needs.”
So does it work as promised? First let’s take a look at what is in Osteo Bi-Flex
Home Remedy Network – Supplement Review – Does Osteo Bi-Flex Work – What Is In Osteo Bi-Flex
According to Osteo Bi-Flex the product contains the following:
Ascorbic Acid – Vitamin C (Ascorbic acid) Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, meaning that your body doesn’t store it. We have to get what we need from food, including citrus fruits, broccoli, and tomatoes. You need vitamin C for the growth and repair of tissues in all parts of your body. Read More: University Of Maryland Medical Center – Vitamin C
Manganese Sulfate – Manganese is a mineral that is found in several foods including nuts, legumes, seeds, tea, whole grains, and leafy green vegetables. It is considered an essential nutrient, because the body requires it to function properly. People use manganese as medicine. Manganese is used for prevention and treatment of manganese deficiency, a condition in which the body doesn’t have enough manganese. It is also used for weak bones (osteoporosis), a type of “tired blood” (anemia), and symptoms of premenstrual syndrome (PMS). Read more: Web MD – Manganese Sulfate
Chondroitin Sulfate – Chondroitin sulfate is a popular dietary supplement. Chondroitin sulfate is often used in combination with glucosamine. Information on the uses, benefits, and side effects of chondroitin sulfate. Studies of chondroitin-glucosamine for osteoarthritis have shown the combination is better than placebo, but benefits seem to depend on severity of pain. Read more: About.com – Chondroitin Sulfate – Glucosamine – Uses – Benefits – Side Effects
Methylsulfonylmethane (MSM) – MSM is sold as a dietary supplement and marketed with a variety of claims, often in combination with glucosamine and/or chondroitin for helping to treat or prevent osteoarthritis. According to one review, “The benefits claimed [for MSM] far exceed the number of scientific studies. It is hard to build a strong case for its use other than for treating arthritis problems.” Read more: Wikipedia – Methylsulfonylmethane (MSM)
Collagen – The actual effects of collagen supplements are debatable. There are few studies on the effects of collagen supplements in easing conditions such as osteoarthritis. Read More: EHow – Risks Of Collagen Supplements
Boswellia Serrata – Boswellia, also known as boswellia serrata or boswellia sacra, is a medicinal herb that is used to treat many things, the most common being swelling. Like any medication, boswellia can have side effects. Read More: EHow – Boswellia Serrata
Manganese – Manganese is a trace mineral that is present in tiny amounts in the body. It is found mostly in bones, the liver, kidneys, and pancreas. Manganese helps the body form connective tissue, bones, blood clotting factors, and sex hormones. It also plays a role in fat and carbohydrate metabolism, calcium absorption, and blood sugar regulation. Manganese is also necessary for normal brain and nerve function. Read more: University Of Maryland – Manganese Benefits
Hyaluronic acid – Hyaluronic acid is a substance that is naturally present in the human body. It is found in the highest concentrations in fluids in the eyes and joints. The hyaluronic acid that is used as medicine is extracted from rooster combs or made by bacteria in the laboratory. People take hyaluronic acid for various joint disorders, including osteoarthritis. It can be taken by mouth or injected into the affected joint by a healthcare professional. Read more: Web MD – Hyaluronic acid
Sodium Tetraborate -Boron (Sodium Tetraborate) treats Hormone regulation, Bodybuilding aid, Osteoarthritis, Psoriasis, Vaginitis, Menopausal symptoms, Osteoporosis, and Improving cognitive function and prevents Prevention of blood clotting. Read more: Healthline -Boron (Sodium Tetraborate)
The research for each of the ingredients of Osteo Bi Flex along with their benefits and links to research sites are above. The thing to remember is that supplements interact with one another and with prescription medications in both negative and positive ways. This means you should always consult with a physician before using Osteo Bi-Flex or any other supplement improve joint health.
Of the listed ingredients, chondroitin sulfate has been researched the most and shows the most evidence for improving the quality of life for those who suffer from arthritis and joint pain.
Home Remedy Network – Supplement Review – Does Osteo Bi-Flex Work – Osteo Bi-Flex Complaints And Endorsements
The use of supplements has not been approved nor are they monitored or regulated by the FDA.
=>FDA -Dietary Supplements<=
The Better Business Bureau has give the company that manufacturers Osteo Bi-Flex a rating of “A”
Here is the information from the Better Business Site Review Of Swanson who manufacturers Osteo Bi-Flex:
BBB Accredited Business since 12/20/2007
Swanson Health Products, Inc.
Phone: (701) 277-1662Fax: (701) 356-2708View Additional Phone Numbers4075 40th Ave S, Fargo, ND 58104-3912 www.swansonvitamins.com
Swanson Health Products, Inc. BBB® Accredited Business Seal
BBB® Accredited A Rating
On a scale of A+ to F Reason for Rating
BBB Ratings System Overview
BBB Accreditation
A BBB Accredited Business since 12/20/2007
BBB has determined that Swanson Health Products, Inc. meets BBB accreditation standards, which include a commitment to make a good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints. BBB Accredited Businesses pay a fee for accreditation review/monitoring and for support of BBB services to the public.
BBB accreditation does not mean that the business’ products or services have been evaluated or endorsed by BBB, or that BBB has made a determination as to the business’ product quality or competency in performing services.
Reason for Rating
BBB rating is based on 16 factors. Get the details about the factors considered.
Factors that raised Swanson Health Products, Inc.’s rating include:
Length of time business has been operating.
Complaint volume filed with BBB for business of this size.
Response to 27 complaint(s) filed against business.
Resolution of complaint(s) filed against business.
BBB has sufficient background information on this business.
Customer Complaints SummaryRead complaint details
27 complaints closed with BBB in last 3 years | 14 closed in last 12 months
Complaint Type Total Closed Complaints
Advertising / Sales Issues 10
Billing / Collection Issues 1
Delivery Issues 5
Guarantee / Warranty Issues 2
Problems with Product / Service 9
Total Closed Complaints 27
Government Actions
BBB knows of no significant government actions involving Swanson Health Products, Inc..
What government actions does BBB report on?
Advertising Review
BBB has nothing to report concerning Swanson Health Products, Inc.’s advertising at this time.
What is BBB Advertising Review?
Additional Information
BBB file opened: 02/03/1998Business started: 06/01/1969
Business started locally: 06/01/2001
New Owner Date: 06/01/1969
Contact Information
Principal: Mr. Doug Anderson (Vice President)Customer Contact: Ms. Patty Westland (Call Center Director)Mr. Rex Dahl (Call Center Manager)Mr. Leland Swanson (President)
Business Category
Vitamins & Food Supplements, Health & Diet Products – Retail, General Merchandise – Retail
Products & Services
According to the information provided by Swanson Health Products, Inc., this company offers natural health products in discount vitamins, dietary supplements, and more.
Home Remedy Network – Supplement Review – Does Osteo Bi-Flex Work – So The Osteo Bi-Flex Verdict Is
We would feel confident if you are using Osteo Bi-Flex with the advice and consent of your personal physician. The fact that the Better Business Bureau offers a rating of “A” helps us feel confident that if you are not satisfied with the product they will be reasonable in attempting to help the situation. The ingredients listed are a mixed bag, some have been tested some have not. This is why you should work with a medical professional.
* This site is not affiliated with Osteo Bi-Flex, its’ manufacturer or distributors. For more information contact:
Corporate Office:
Osteo Bi-Flex
ATT: Consumer Affairs
110 Orville Drive
Bohemia, NY 11716
Questions or Comments:
Product Specialists: 1-888-848-2435 (Mon.-Sat., 9 a.m.- 7 p.m. EST)
Media Inquiries: 1-888-848-2435
https://www.osteobiflex.com/
Disclaimer
Health News: Picking Supplements For Arthritis Pain Relief
Related Posts:
Home Remedy Network – Supplement Review…
Glucosamine Effectiveness In Relieving Chronic Joint Pain
Home Remedy Network Joint Ease Plus Review What Does…
Home Remedy Network Supplement Review Joint Ease…
Home Remedy Network Joint Ease Plus Review Will…
Posted in Aging, Arthritis, Joint Pain, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Supplements and tagged arthritis supplements, arthritis supplements cartilage, arthritis supplements for horses, best arthritis supplements, does osteo bi flex work, equine arthritis supplements, Home Remedy Network, horse arthritis supplements, msm arthritis supplements, natural arthritis supplements, osteo bi flex advanced, osteo bi flex caplets, osteo bi flex coupon, osteo bi flex glucosamine chondroitin, osteo bi flex ingredients, osteo bi flex liquid, osteo bi flex reviews, osteo bi flex side effects, osteo bi flex with 5-loxin, rheumatoid arthritis supplements
← Purely Natural Ways To Prevent And Turn Back The Cause Of Erectile DysfunctionFive Home Remedy Suggestions To Help Get Rid Of Cellulite →
Categories
Acid Reflux Disease
Acne
ADHD
Aging
Aloe Vera
Alternative Medicine
Anxiety
Arthritis
Asthma
Back Pain
Bipolar Disorder
Bodybuilding Supplements
Breast Health
Bronchitis
Cancer Treatment
Cellulite
Childrens Issues
Cholesterol
Colds And Flu
Constipation
Depression
Diabetes
Drugs
Eczema
Epilepsy
Erectile Dysfunction
Fertility Issues
Food Recall
Foot Fungus
Foot Problems
GERD
Gout
Headaches
Healthy Weight Gain
Healthy Weight Loss
Hearing Issues
Heart Health
Hemorrhoids
Herbal Medicine
Herbal Medicine
Herbal Medicine
Herbal Medicine
Herbal Remedies
Herbal Supplements
Herbal Treatments
High Blood Pressure
Holistic Cure
Holistic Remedies
Home Remedies
Home Remedy
Home Remedy
Home Remedy
Home Remedy
Homeopathic Medicine
Insomnia
Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Joint Pain
Knee Pain
Men's Issues
Mental Health
Migraines
Natural Cure
Natural Cure
Natural Cure
Natural Cures
Natural Healing
Natural Remedies
news
Pain Management
Pregnancy
Prostate Health
Psoriasis
Recalls On Food
Reiki Healing
Resources
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Sexual Issues
Sinus
Skin Disorders
Sleep Disorders
Snoring
Supplements
Supplements
Supplements
Supplements
Supplements
Teen Issues
Uncategorized
Weight Loss Scams
Wellness
Wellness
Wellness
Wellness
Women's Issues
Pages
Contact us
Policies
Disclosure
Privacy Policy
Archives
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
December 2014
October 2014
August 2014
July 2013
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
September 2011
August 2011
Recent Posts
Early Signs Of A Heart Attack In Women
What Is Natural Therapy?
Home Remedy Network – Medicine For Gout
Arthri-D Is It The Natural Joint Pain And Healing Supplement It Claims
Natural Joint Pain Treatments
The Best Supplements For Arthritis Natural Treatment And Remedy
Top 6 Tips To Boost Testosterone Naturally
Testosterone Therapy For Men – Pros And Cons
Prostavar Review – Prostavar The Inside Scoop Revealed
Which Is Better Prilosec, Nexium or Prevacid?
Fair Use Disclaimer
NOTICE: The publisher is in no way associated with or endorsed by any of the products or companies reviewed on this website. All references to products, services, affiliates, trademarks and brands are used in strict accordance with the Fair Use Doctrine and are not intended to imply that this website or the publisher is providing information for any commercial purpose.
Tags
acne alternative alternative cure Alternative cures Alternative Healing Alternative Medicine alternative remedies alternative therapy alternative treatment alternative treatments arthritis arthritis drug arthritis medication arthritis pain arthritis pain relief Arthritis Symptoms Arthritis Symptoms In Hands Arthritis Treatment cancer cure cures healing health herbal Herbal Remedies herbs holistic home homeopathic Homeopathy Home Remedies home remedies advice home remedies guide home remedies tips Home remedy Home Remedy Network medicine medicine alternative natural natural home remedies natural remedies remedies rheumatoid arthritis treatment supplements treatment
© 2017 Home Remedy Network