Tullio Simoncini | Anaximperator blog
Home
About
About Me
See This!
Comments
Contact
Links
Anaximperator blog
Blogging against alternative cancer treatments
Tag Archives: Tullio Simoncini
Drinking baking soda does not cure cancer
90 Comments Posted by JLI on May 9, 2013
On the internet there are claims that researchers at University of Arizona are planning clinical trials on the use of baking soda as treatment of cancer.
Here is the article that allegedly document this claim. But the article does no such thing. The article reports fundings to biomedical engineers who are working on a method to measure pH inside cancers.
Cancers are often more acidic than the rest of the body. How this comes about is described in this post. This may influence the efficacy of some types of chemotherapy. And it may also influence the cancers ability to spread.
There are two paragraphs in the article that may appear to support what the baking soda supporters claim. We will start taking a look at this one:
Drinking baking soda has been proven to reduce or eliminate the spread of breast cancer to the lungs, brain and bone, but too much baking soda can also damage normal organs.
Read more of this post
Advertisements
Fungus and sodium bicarbonate, Tullio Simoncini	baking soda, candida, candida albicans, sodium bicarbonate, Tullio Simoncini
There is no time to wait for alternative cancer therapy to work err… fail
22 Comments Posted by JLI on August 8, 2012
The reason that this blog came to be is the existence of cancer quackery, sometimes called alternative cancer treatments.
Many websites including this blog explain what is wrong with alternative cancer treatments and why they are dangerous and there are horrible examples of what happens to patients who chose to forgo conventional treatment and opt for some kind of alternative treatment instead. But the internet is littered with testimonials touting the successes of miraculous alternative cancer cures that are often claimed to be suppressed. Such testimonials can be very persuasive, especially if the reader/video viewer is afraid and not aware of what to look for, so it is no wonder that people get confused.
Read more of this post
antineoplaston therapy, Cancer, chemotherapy, Magical thinking, metastasis, science, Surgery	alternative cancer cures, alternative cancer treatment, alternative medicine, cam, Cancer, chemo, chemotherapy, diet and cancer, evidence-based medicine, German New Medicine, Germanische Neue Medizin, gerson, gonzales, Health fraud, immune therapy, quackery, Simoncini, Stanislaw Burzynski, supplements for cancer, Tullio Simoncini
Suppressed by Scientists and Big Pharma: The Hidden Cancer Cure… But Which One??
36 Comments Posted by beatis on February 25, 2011
Altmeds keep telling us that “they” (science and “big pharma”) know there is a cure for cancer, but that this knowledge is hidden from us, “so that the multinational pharmaceuticals could continue to make money. Where would they be if diseases like cancer were easily curable?”
Read more of this post
Cancer, Health fraud, Uncategorized	alternative medicine, amygdalin, big pharma, biologie totale, Cancer, candida, claude sabbah, Dirk Hamer, German New Medicine, Germanische Neue Medizin, gerson, gonzales, Health fraud, hoxey, hulda clarck, jim humble, laetrile, matthias rath, meta medicine, mms, positive thinking, quackery, rife, sodium bicarbonate, supplements, Tullio Simoncini, vitamin b17, vitamins, zapper
Alternative Medicine: Double Corruption
66 Comments Posted by beatis on February 23, 2011
Last year we blogged about Kim Tinkham, who decided to treat her breast cancer with Robert O. Young’s alternative cancer treatment, which he proudly calls the “pH miracle” treatment.
On his website Young proclaimed that his pH miracle treatment had reversed Kim Tinkham’s cancer. Apparently Kim believed him, for she allowed Young to use her in several of his YouTube videos, in which she touted his treatment and stated that it had cured her of her breast cancer.
Read more of this post
Cancer, diet and cancer, Fungus and sodium bicarbonate, Health fraud, Robert O. Young, Uncategorized	alkaline diet, kim tinkham, marjolein bouwman, ph balance, quackery, robert o. young, sodium bicarbonate, Tullio Simoncini
Sodium Bicarbonate Really Works… for H1N1 influenza!
16 Comments Posted by cryptocheilus on December 18, 2009
Oh, my. We overlooked something. ‘Respected’ woo-meister Dr Mercola proposes another use for Sodium Bicarbonate! As he believes, it cannot only cure cancer, but is also a good for ….. treating H1N1 influenza!
In 1918 and 1919 while fighting the ‘flu’ with the U. S. Public Health Service it was brought to my attention that rarely anyone who had been thoroughly alkalinized with bicarbonate of soda contracted the disease, and those who did contract it, if alkalinized early, would invariably have mild attacks.
Miracles do happen!
Read more of this post
Cancer, Fungus and sodium bicarbonate	alternative medicine, baking soda, cam, Cancer, candida, candida albicans, cat scan, chemo, chemotherapy, flu, fungus, H1N1, Health fraud, holistic, immune system, Mark Sircus, quackery, Simoncini, sodium bicarbonate, Tullio Simoncini
Cancer and Fungus: Career Boost for Sodium Bicarbonate Pusher and Cancer Quack Tullio Simoncini
67 Comments Posted by beatis on November 21, 2009
Struck off and convicted for fraud and involuntary manslaughter in Italy, under investigation in the Netherlands, baking soda salesman and cancer quack Tullio Simoncini is always on the lookout for more chickens to pluck. Recently, Simoncini has struck a deal with UFO/paranormal sensationalist, alien hunter and hoaxer Jaime Mausson of Mexico to push his cancer quackery in South America.
Read more of this post
Cancer, Fungus and sodium bicarbonate, Tullio Simoncini, Uncategorized	alternative medicine, baking soda, cam, Cancer, candida, candida albicans, chemotherapy, fungus, Health fraud, holistic, quackery, Simoncini, Tullio Simoncini
Sodium Bicarbonate Really Works! :-)
32 Comments Posted by beatis on November 15, 2009
We have spent a lot of energy here to debunk Tullio Simoncini’s baking soda therapy as a cure for cancer.
I am afraid we may have been wrong…
Read more of this post
Fungus and sodium bicarbonate, Miscellaneous, Tullio Simoncini, Uncategorized	alternative medicine, baking soda, cam, Cancer, candida, candida albicans, cat scan, chemo, chemotherapy, fungus, Health fraud, holistic, immune system, quackery, Simoncini, sodium bicarbonate, Tullio Simoncini
Tullio Simoncini: Of Rodents, Research and Baking Soda
4 Comments Posted by beatis on August 9, 2009
In the stats of this blog I can see from which pages people clicked to get to our blog. Sometimes I take a peek at these pages, as I did last week.
It landed me in a discussion on the ‘cancer therapy’ of Tullio Simoncini, which included some rather opinionated proponents of our Italian friend. A blog member named Byron stated that there was no evidence to prove Simoncini wrong, so I decided to tell them that research showed that sodium bicarbonate does nothing to stop cancer growth and was found even to stimulate it, giving the relevant link on our blog.
Read more of this post
Cancer, Fungus and sodium bicarbonate, Health fraud, Tullio Simoncini, Uncategorized	alternative medicine, baking soda, cam, Cancer, candida, candida albicans, carcinoma, chemo, chemotherapy, evidence-based medicine, fungus, Health fraud, holistic, immune system, lab animals, metastases, quackery, research, Simoncini, sodium bicarbonate, Tullio Simoncini
Continued: Simoncini sCAM Murderer?
20 Comments Posted by beatis on August 1, 2009
Tullio Simoncini, a convicted ex medical doctor, ‘discovered’ that cancer is no more than the fungus candida albicans, and claims it can easily be cured with sodium bicarbonate (baking soda). Until now he has failed to deliver any evidence for his ‘discovery.’
In November 2008 we posted an email which was sent to Healthfraud, concerning a patient with glioblastoma.
Read more of this post
Cancer, Fungus and sodium bicarbonate, Health fraud, Tullio Simoncini, Uncategorized	alternative medicine, baking soda, cam, Cancer, candida, candida albicans, cat scan, chemo, chemotherapy, glioblastoma, Health fraud, quackery, Simoncini, sodium bicarbonate, Tullio Simoncini
Is Cancer a Fungus? Tullio Simoncini and Bladder Cancer – Again
42 Comments Posted by beatis on June 30, 2009
This story is a translation of a post on a French blog that tells of the night shift of a physician – a nephrologist – who is the blog owner and the author of the article. Thanks also to WeWee for this introduction, to which we have added some details about two other patients of Simoncini.
DIY cancer treatment
On the web site of Tullio Simoncini, who claims he can cure cancer with baking soda, there is a page on DIY-treatments: it explains how patients can administer their baking soda infusions themselves in their own home. Simoncini’s Dutch patient Marjolein did this too.
Who in the world would believe such nonsense as DIY-treatment for cancer with baking soda? Well, frightened cancer patients to begin with, desperately frightened of having cancer and of the treatments they may have to undergo to save themselves. But then you hear of a ‘doctor’ who promises a 99,9 % cure, without any of the nasty side effects of conventional treatments! When your fear has made you vulnerable and gullible, it is easy to fall into this trap.
Read more of this post
Cancer, Fungus and sodium bicarbonate, Health fraud, Tullio Simoncini, Uncategorized	alternative medicine, baking soda, bladder cancer, Cancer, candida, candida albicans, carcinoma, catheter, chemo, chemotherapy, evidence-based medicine, fungus, Health fraud, kidneys, nephrostomy, quackery, renal function, sodium bicarbonate, Tullio Simoncini
← Older posts
RSS feed
Recent comments
JLI on Is It True That Only 2 Or 3 %…
Jordan on Is It True That Only 2 Or 3 %…
Burzynski The Movie:… on Burzynski The Movie: Does It P…
Natasha Zarich on Is It True That Only 2 Or 3 %…
JLI on Homeopathy For Cancer, Endorse…
Paulo de Oliveira on Homeopathy For Cancer, Endorse…
6 Common Misconcepti… on Sugar depleted diet is not a c…
JLI on Drinking baking soda does not…
Steve Collier on Drinking baking soda does not…
JLI on German New Medicine (GNM) and…
Recent posts
Man wasn’t dying from colon cancer, and he didn’t cure himself with Cannabis
A Fungus Ball is a Fungus Ball – and not Cancer
Drinking baking soda does not cure cancer
Sugar depleted diet is not a cure for cancer
Homeopathy For Cancer, Endorsed by ASCO?? Not Really
Cancer Research UK Science Update Blog
News digest – red and processed meat, DNA ‘fingerprints’, targeted leukaemia drugs and CRISPR April 19, 2019
Science Surgery: ‘How do tumours ‘know’ where to spread?’ April 18, 2019
News digest – cancer ‘vaccine factories’, cataloguing DNA weaknesses, NHS drug decisions and cancer sniffing canines April 13, 2019
Psiram/Esowatch
Psirama – Der Psiram-Wochenrückblick (KW 14, 2019) April 7, 2019
Psirama – Der Psiram-Wochenrückblick (KW 12, 2019) March 24, 2019
Die Wahrheit in der Wissenschaft – oder die Wahrheit in Bild der Wissenschaft? March 17, 2019
Respectul Insolence
An error has occurred; the feed is probably down. Try again later.
Science-Based Medicine
Chiropractor Treating Concussions for Earlier Return to Play April 23, 2019
Bleaching away what ails you: The Genesis II Church is still selling Miracle Mineral Supplement as a cure-all April 22, 2019
New Research Reveals a Startling Increase in Pediatric Foreign-Body Ingestions April 19, 2019
Edzard Ernst
Chiropractors treating children – is it not time to stop these charlatans? April 24, 2019
‘Mom’s Choice Awards’ for a homeopathic product – was it for the maximum number of false claims in one single product? April 23, 2019
A risk-benefit assessment of (chiropractic) neck manipulation April 22, 2019
Blogroll
A pathologist examines: cancer and fungus
Alternative Medicine and Cancer
Ars GeriatriCare (Dutch)
Cancer Research UK
Cancer Survival in Europe
Cryptocheilus medical blog (Dutch)
Dr. Len's Cancer Blog
EBM-first: What alternative health practitioners might not tell you
Medbunker blogspot (Italian)
My Malignant Melanoma
Psiram/Esowatch (German)
Quackwatch
Science-Based Medicine
Top Posts
Infant Dies after "Craniosacral" Therapy
Is It True That Only 2 Or 3 % Of Cancer Patients Survive Chemotherapy?
German New Medicine (GNM): Hamer House of Horrors
Tullio Simoncini's Lucrative Little Cancer Cure sCam?
Marion lost her father to the "German New Medicine" of Ryke Geerd Hamer
Categories
Categories Select Category Andreas Moritz antineoplaston therapy autism biologie totale Bogus tests Cancer chemotherapy claude sabbah Contraptions craniosacral therapy Curezone diet and cancer Fungus and sodium bicarbonate German New Medicine (GNM) Hamer Health fraud homeopathy How science works images Macrobiotics Magical thinking manual therapy Medical machines metastasis Mike Adams Miscellaneous palliative care personality and cancer philosophy Psychology and cancer Robert O. Young science simon singh Surgery tony isaacs Tullio Simoncini Uncategorized vaccines
acupuncture alternative cancer treatment alternative medicine antisemitic baking soda biologie totale boosting breast cancer cam Cancer candida candida albicans carcinoma Caroline Markolin cat scan chemo chemotherapy chief rabbi chiropractic claude sabbah corinne thos Dirk Hamer echinacea evidence evidence-based medicine fungus garlic Germanische Neue Medizin German Medicine German New Medicine GNM götz Hamer HBOT Health fraud holistic homeopathy hoxsey therapy hulda clarck images immune system iscador iwan götz jewish conspiracy libel manual therapy medecine nouvelle meta medicine metametrix metastases Michaeala Jakubczyk mistletoe naturopathy nouvelle medécine olivia pilhar osteopathy personality Philosophy of science positive thinking psychological aspects and cancer quackery rife Ryke Geerd Hamer santegod schneerson science Simoncini sodium bicarbonate supplements tony isaacs total biology Tullio Simoncini viscum album vitamins zapper
Pathology.org
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Sign me up!
Advertisements
↑ Top Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy