3 Great Health Remedies In Your Kitchen | HubPages
MORE
HubPages
Sign InJoin
ArtsAutosBooksBusinessEducationEntertainmentFamilyFashionFoodGamesGenderHealthHolidaysHomeHubPagesPersonal FinancePetsPoliticsReligionSportsTechnologyTravel
6
HubPages»
Health»
Alternative & Natural Medicine»
Whole-Body Health & Holistic Medicine
3 Great Health Remedies In Your Kitchen
Updated on May 6, 2015
Cyndi Gibson
more
Contact Author
Proven Home Remedies
Throughout the ages, food has been known to have powerful properties. Thus the saying, you are what you eat. Some food goes above and beyond it's nutritional value, providing phytochemicals, potent compounds, that promote healing and directly attack harmful pathogens. The following three foods are found in most kitchens and are scientifically proven to be effective remedies for common health complaints.
1. Honey
A Natural Antibiotic
Ambrosia, food of the gods, this is what the ancient Greeks called honey. Hippocrates, known as the founder of medical science, praised the nutritional and therapeutic value of honey, and used it both as food and medicine.
Recent studies continue to support what ancient practitioners have long touted about honey's ability to prevent and fight infection. Not only does honey have antibacterial properties, but honey has proven effective in killing antibiotic-resistant bacteria. A study published June, 2008 in the journal, Clinical Infectious Diseases, an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America, found that honey was effective in killing strains of bacteria known to be drug-resistant.
Honey not only kills known antibiotic-resistant bacteria, it does so without the bacteria becoming resistant to honey. Dr. Susan Meschwitz is a research chemist that is interested in compounds that inhibit quorum sensing, the communication system of bacteria. She is focusing on honey because it impacts the virulence, or aggressiveness of bacteria. The antivirulent property of honey means that it does not put the same survival pressure on bacteria as antibiotics, thus honey does not promote resistant bacteria.
Honey can be used topically to treat wounds, burns and skin infections. Make sure the area is clean before applying honey to the skin. Avoid getting honey beyond the affected area, so as not to interfere with bandaging. Cover the area with a bandage. Reapply the honey as needed.
Taking honey orally can help fight internal infection such as stomach ailments and sore throats. Take a tablespoon of honey and repeat every couple of hours for as long as needed.
Dr. Susan Meschwitz - Researching Honey
Honey Pot
Le Creuset Stoneware 16-Ounce Honey Pot, Dijon
Buy Now
Treat A Cough Or Sore Throat
A spoonful of honey to treat a cough or sore throat is an old folk remedy. The reason that this folk remedy has persisted throughout the years is because it works! According to the Mayo Clinic, honey is as effective in suppressing cough as dextromethorphan, the active ingredient in most over-the-counter cough syrups.
Not only does honey taste better than cough syrup, honey can not be abused like dextromethorphan, and honey has no adverse side effects.
Honey is known to be anti inflammatory. The anti inflammatory property of honey is so effective, a recent study showed honey is a promising agent in treating the inflammation caused by arthritis.
Honey's ability to reduce inflammation is what makes it so effective as a cold and flu remedy. When the irritation of the throat is reduced, coughing is reduced. Honey also soothes a sore throat on contact, as well as acting as an anti inflammatory, offering longer-term relief from throat pain.
So instead of driving to the drug store for cough syrup or throat lozenges, simply head to the kitchen and treat yourself to a spoonful of honey.
2. Ginger
Tackle Nausea, Vomiting, And Heartburn
Ginger is more than just a tasty root used to spice up baked goods and flavor Asian cuisine. Ginger has long been hailed as a digestive aid and has great healing properties to help settle an upset stomach.
Want to head off heartburn? Ginger to the rescue! According to Dr. David Williams, a medical researcher and biochemist, eating a teaspoon of freshly grated ginger can be as effective as acid blocking medications used to treat acid reflux. Unlike over-the-counter and prescription drugs, ginger has no known side effects, or risk of overdose.
Ginger's historical use to calm the stomach has led researchers to put ginger to the test. Recent studies have shown that ginger is helpful in preventing and reducing nausea that is often experienced by chemotherapy patients. There is also scientific support for the use of ginger with postoperative patients. In a recent study, ginger proved to prevent or reduce nausea and vomiting caused by drugs used during surgery.
Those suffering from morning sickness associated with pregnancy can also benefit from ginger. A study conducted in 2005 showed that ginger was a promising natural treatment for pregnancy-induced nausea and vomiting. In this study, over 60% of the participants responded favorably to treatment with ginger. The use of ginger was proven to be as effective as the reference drug used in the study. With no side effects or risks, ginger is an optimal choice for both mommy and baby.
For those suffering from motion sickness, skip the dramamine and opt for ginger instead. According to the University of Michigan, taking 1 gram of ginger before travel, and again every two to four hours during travel, reduces the occurrence of nausea and vomiting associated with motion sickness.
Dr. Christopher Napoli - Ginger For Motion Sickness
Ways To Store and Use Ginger
Fresh ginger root is found in the produce section of your local grocery store. Select a piece of ginger root that is dry and firm. Examine the skin to be sure it hasn't wrinkled or withered. Do not peel the ginger you intend to store, only peel pieces intended for immediate use. Before storing the ginger, blot off any moisture, then place it in a self-sealing bag. Remove as much air as possible, seal, and store in the refrigerator. You can then cut off pieces of the ginger root as needed. Simply blot the moisture from the cut end of your remaining ginger root before resealing the bag and refrigerating. Using this method, the ginger should be good for up to four weeks.
Some people enjoy the flavor of ginger and simply peel it and eat it raw to settle an upset stomach. You can carry bite-size peeled ginger in a self-sealing bag to treat morning sickness or motion sickness on the go.
Ginger tea is an alternative for those who do not care to chew on raw ginger. For those suffering from nausea associated with a cold or the flu, ginger tea is not only therapeutic, but comforting as well. Peel a one-inch piece of ginger and thinly slice. Place the ginger slices into a cup or mug, and fill the cup with boiling water. Allow the ginger to steep in the hot water until the temperature is cool enough to drink. Leave the ginger slices in the cup, sip and enjoy. If you like, you can add lemon and honey to taste. After drinking the liquid, the ginger may be consumed or discarded.
If you don't have time to use fresh ginger you can use ground ginger right from your spice rack. Stir 1/2 teaspoon of ground ginger into boiling water and let it sit for 3-5 minutes. In even a bigger hurry? Mix 1/2 teaspoon of ground ginger into a tablespoon of honey and simply eat it.
3. Garlic
Reduce Your Risk Of Cancer
According to the National Cancer Institute, consumption of garlic is associated with a reduced risk or cancer. Several population studies in the United States, Europe and China show an association between the intake of garlic and a reduced risk of cancers of the stomach, colon, esophagus, pancreas, and breast.
Researchers recently discovered that the compound DATS found in garlic significantly blocks the reproduction of cancer cells. A study in 2013 showed an exciting 60-74 percent shrinkage in tumors in mice. This has led researchers to be cautiously optimistic, since the best drug currently on the market only produces tumor shrinkage in the 30-40 percent range.
The current scientific findings suggest that garlic is not just tasty, it is a potent anticarcinogen that can easily be incorporated into the diet.
Garlic Keeper
Le Creuset Stoneware Garlic Keeper, Dune
Buy Now
Use a good sized clove of garlic | Source
Swallow with water | Source
Another Natural Antibiotic
For centuries, garlic has been used to improve immune response and treat everything from the common cold to bladder infection. Once again, it turns out that the wisdom of the ages is still relevant today.
A study published in July 2010, confirmed that garlic possesses antibacterial properties effective against Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli, common strains of bacteria responsible for staph infection, pneumonia, as well as other common infections, such as urinary tract infection.
Bacterial infections of the stomach, commonly called food poisoning, meets it's match in garlic. The antibacterial properties found in garlic pack a powerful punch against common bacteria associated with foodborne illnesses. Unlike prescription antibiotics, garlic can treat food poisoning without the risk of side effects. When you're already sick, who wants to worry about other adverse effects?
To use fresh garlic, peel one clove, mince and swallow with water just as you would take a pill. Be careful not to chew the garlic and you'll avoid the pungent taste. If the garlic taste is too strong for you, take a spoonful of honey directly after the garlic. You'll not only chase away the taste, but you'll add another ingredient with bacteria fighting power.
Len Saputo, M.D. - Treating Foodborne Illness With Garlic
When do you usually reach for a home remedy?
Sore Throat
Hay Fever
Upset Stomach
Heartburn
See results
Common Foods To Help Heal Common Ailments
Honey, ginger, and garlic are nature's answer to many of the common ailments we encounter. These foods will not only help perk you up when you are sick, they will help ward off bacteria and inflammation, improving your overall health.
Incorporate these foods into your daily diet and you'll reap tasty benefits. Keep plenty of honey on hand to stir into tea, sweeten breakfast cereals, and drizzle on bread. Use fresh ginger in salads, soups and stir-fries. Add fresh garlic to most any savory dish to pump up the flavor and add an antioxidant boost.
However, no matter how hard we try, there are days we don't feel well. When we do become run down, feel a cold coming on, or find ourselves fighting an upset stomach, remember, the kitchen is a lot closer and safer than the drug store!
Remedies At A Glance
FOOD
AILMENT
DOSAGE
Honey
Cough, Sore Throat
Take a tablespoon of honey
Ginger
Nausea, Vomiting, Heartburn
Chew on raw ginger, or sip ginger tea
Garlic
Cold, Flu, Food Poisoning
Take one teaspoon minced garlic with water
Honey Lemon & Ginger Tea For Colds
Related
Cough & Cold Home Remedies
Home Remedies for a Sore Throat and the Common Cold
by Susan Holland27
Home Remedies
Onion Folk & Home Remedies: Everything Can be Cured With an Onion
by Catherine Taylor30
Herbal Remedies
Gogol-Mogol. Grandma's Remedy For a Sore Throat, Cough and Cold.
by ReuVera19
Popular
Whole-Body Cures & Remedies
Honey as Medicine: Manuka Honey for Fast Natural Wound Healing
by Patty Inglish MS125
Whole-Body Cures & Remedies
Laughter as Medicine
by Patty Inglish MS10
Whole-Body Cures & Remedies
My Pompholyx Cure
by Janey Hood9
Comments
Sign in or sign up and post using a HubPages Network account.
0 of 8192 characters used
Post Comment
No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked. Comments are not for promoting your articles or other sites.
sending
Ashey
3 years ago
Learning a ton from these neat arelicts.
AUTHOR
Cyndi Gibson
3 years ago from Atlanta, GA
Peachpurple, thanks for sharing an alternative to swallowing minced garlic. Here's to good health!
AUTHOR
Cyndi Gibson
3 years ago from Atlanta, GA
Littlething, it seems that mothers often know what's best. They may not always know why something works, but they know what works!
peachy
3 years ago from Home Sweet Home
I mix chopped garlic with hot water and let it cool befire drinking
John Jack George
3 years ago from United States
Great Hub, very useful. I knew about ginger being a treatment for nausea. My monther made us ginger tea or got us ginger ale when me and my siblings had the stomach flu. Thanks for the new information!
RTalloni
3 years ago from the short journey
Thanks for organizing useful info in this hub.
About Us
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages® is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, Google, and others.
Sign InJoin
Arts and Design
Autos
Books, Literature, and Writing
Business and Employment
Education and Science
Entertainment and Media
Family and Parenting
Fashion and Beauty
Food and Cooking
Games, Toys, and Hobbies
Gender and Relationships
Health
Holidays and Celebrations
Home
HubPages Tutorials and Community
Personal Finance
Pets and Animals
Politics and Social Issues
Religion and Philosophy
Sports and Recreation
Technology
Travel and Places
Blog
Help
About Us
Editorial Policy
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners.
working
This website uses cookies
As a user in the EEA, your approval is needed on a few things. To provide a better website experience, hubpages.com uses cookies (and other similar technologies) and may collect, process, and share personal data. Please choose which areas of our service you consent to our doing so.
Necessary
Features
Marketing
Statistics
Approve All & Submit
Approve Checked Only
For more information on managing or withdrawing consents and how we handle data, visit our Privacy Policy at: https://hubpages.com/privacy-policy#gdpr
Show Details
Necessary
HubPages Device ID This is used to identify particular browsers or devices when the access the service, and is used for security reasons.
Login This is necessary to sign in to the HubPages Service.
Google Recaptcha This is used to prevent bots and spam. (Privacy Policy)
Akismet This is used to detect comment spam. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Google Analytics This is used to provide data on traffic to our website, all personally identifyable data is anonymized. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Traffic Pixel This is used to collect data on traffic to articles and other pages on our site. Unless you are signed in to a HubPages account, all personally identifiable information is anonymized.
Amazon Web Services This is a cloud services platform that we used to host our service. (Privacy Policy)
Cloudflare This is a cloud CDN service that we use to efficiently deliver files required for our service to operate such as javascript, cascading style sheets, images, and videos. (Privacy Policy)
Google Hosted Libraries Javascript software libraries such as jQuery are loaded at endpoints on the googleapis.com or gstatic.com domains, for performance and efficiency reasons. (Privacy Policy)
Features
Google Custom Search This is feature allows you to search the site. (Privacy Policy)
Google Maps Some articles have Google Maps embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Google Charts This is used to display charts and graphs on articles and the author center. (Privacy Policy)
Google AdSense Host API This service allows you to sign up for or associate a Google AdSense account with HubPages, so that you can earn money from ads on your articles. No data is shared unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Google YouTube Some articles have YouTube videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Vimeo Some articles have Vimeo videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Paypal This is used for a registered author who enrolls in the HubPages Earnings program and requests to be paid via PayPal. No data is shared with Paypal unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Login You can use this to streamline signing up for, or signing in to your Hubpages account. No data is shared with Facebook unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Maven This supports the Maven widget and search functionality. (Privacy Policy)
Marketing
Google AdSense This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Google DoubleClick Google provides ad serving technology and runs an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Index Exchange This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Sovrn This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Ads This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Unified Ad Marketplace This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
AppNexus This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Openx This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Rubicon Project This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
TripleLift This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Say Media We partner with Say Media to deliver ad campaigns on our sites. (Privacy Policy)
Remarketing Pixels We may use remarketing pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to advertise the HubPages Service to people that have visited our sites.
Conversion Tracking Pixels We may use conversion tracking pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to identify when an advertisement has successfully resulted in the desired action, such as signing up for the HubPages Service or publishing an article on the HubPages Service.
Statistics
Author Google Analytics This is used to provide traffic data and reports to the authors of articles on the HubPages Service. (Privacy Policy)
Comscore ComScore is a media measurement and analytics company providing marketing data and analytics to enterprises, media and advertising agencies, and publishers. Non-consent will result in ComScore only processing obfuscated personal data. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Tracking Pixel Some articles display amazon products as part of the Amazon Affiliate program, this pixel provides traffic statistics for those products (Privacy Policy)
{{section}}
{{title}}
by {{author}} {{comment_count}}