Grapefruit juice boosts power of cancer medication | MNN - Mother Nature Network
We're happy you're here!
Welcome to Mother Nature Network, where curiosity rules and living well is the goal.
Join our newsletter list
Email Address Email is required
Subscribe
Newsletters
Monday/Wednesday/Friday Newsletter
The MNN newsletter is delivered every Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
×
Mother Nature Network
Earth Matters
All Earth Matters
Animals
Climate & Weather
Energy
Politics
Space
Translating Uncle Sam
Wilderness & Resources
Health
All Health
Allergies
Fitness & Well-Being
Healthy Spaces
Lifestyle
All Lifestyle
Arts & Culture
Natural Beauty & Fashion
Recycling
Responsible Living
Travel
Tech
All Tech
Computers
Gadgets & Electronics
Research & Innovations
Transportation
Money
All Money
Green Workplace
Personal Finance
Sustainable Business Practices
Food & Drink
All Food & Drink
Beverages
Healthy Eating
Recipes
Home
All Home
At Home
Organic Farming & Gardening
Remodeling & Design
Family
All Family
Babies & Pregnancy
Family Activities
Pets
Protection & Safety
Mother Nature Network
Earth Matters
Health
Lifestyle
Tech
Money
Food & Drink
Home
Family
Newsletters
Photos
Videos
Quizzes
Blogs
About Us
Contact Us
MNN.com > Food & Drink > Healthy Eating
Grapefruit juice boosts power of cancer medication
Grapefruit juice has been shown to inhibit certain enzymes that slow down drugs from entering the bloodstream.
Christopher Wanjek, LiveScience
August 7, 2012, 1:07 p.m.
Tweet
0
Photo: MeganSchuirmann/Flickr
Grapefruit juice, long known to have dangerous interactions with numerous prescription medications, appears to actually improve the use of a promising cancer drug.
Researchers at University of Chicago Medicine found that a glass of grapefruit juice so improved the body's uptake of a potent drug called sirolimus that they could cut the drug dosage by a third to reach the same desired effect as a full dose.
The lower dose meant that patients had far fewer side effects from the drug. If this same mechanism can work on similar drugs — something the researchers say is hopeful — doctors could prescribe other medications at lower doses, reducing side effects and saving money.
The study was reported on Aug. 7 in the journal Clinical Cancer Research.
Fruit-drug cocktails
The researchers, led by Ezra Cohen, a cancer specialist at the University of Chicago Medicine, harnessed the same pharmacological properties that make grapefruit juice so menacing when taken with prescription drugs. [Top 10 Cancer-Fighting Foods]
Grapefruit juice inhibits certain enzymes in the intestinal walls that otherwise would slow many drugs from entering the bloodstream. With the enzymes blocked, these drugs move more quickly and freely into the bloodstream and can spike the body with dangerous and even toxic levels of the medication.
These drugs include cholesterol-lowering statins, many psychiatric drugs such as Valium and Zoloft, pain medications such as methadone, and many more, including sirolimus.
Sirolimus, also called rapamycin, was originally used as an antifungal medication. After the drug was also found to be a powerful immunosuppressant, it was used to prevent rejections in organ transplants, especially kidney transplants.
More recently, sirolimus has been shown to slow the spread of certain cancers, particularly incurable brain and blood cancers.
Grapefruit chaser
As with many powerful drugs, sirolimus has its side effects. At doses above 45 mg per week, the Chicago researchers said, the drug causes serious gastrointestinal problems, such as nausea and diarrhea, so bad that patients have to be rotated to lower doses.
Cohen's group conducted a study on 138 people with incurable cancers to determine an ideal dose. A third received only sirolimus; a third took sirolimus with 8 ounces of grapefruit juice; and a third took sirolimus with another drug, called ketoconazole, which also increases sirolimus' absorption.
The researchers found that the optimal cancer-fighting dose for those taking only sirolimus was about 90 mg per week, twice as high as the side-effect threshold. Those drinking grapefruit juice, however, needed only about 25 to 35 mg per week of sirolimus.
Those patients on ketoconazole needed only 16 mg per week of sirolimus, the study found. But Cohen said that grapefruit juice was superior in that it is natural and non-toxic … and cheaper.
"We have at our disposal an agent that can markedly increase bioavailability (in this study by approximately 350 percent) and … decrease prescription drug spending on many agents metabolized by P450 enzymes," those gut enzymes that grapefruit juice blocks, the authors wrote in their report.
Cohen said that one drawback is predicting the effect of grapefruit juice. Note the precise dosage determined with the use of ketoconazole, 16 mg, compared with the range with grapefruit juice. This may be due to the juice formulation, which is less precise than that of a pharmaceutical drug.
But the researchers added that tests on enzyme levels could determine, with reasonably accuracy, how well a patient would respond to medication accompanied by grapefruit juice. Of course, this would be best for doctors to decide, not patients hoping to cut back on their meds using guesswork.
Christopher Wanjek is the author of a new novel, "Hey, Einstein!", a comical nature-versus-nurture tale about raising clones of Albert Einstein in less-than-ideal settings. His column, Bad Medicine, appears regularly on LiveScience.
Related on LiveScience:
7 Perfect Survival Foods
5 Wacky Things That Are Good for Your Health
10 New Ways to Eat Well
Copyright 2012 LiveScience, a TechMediaNetwork company. All rights reserved.
Related topics: Healthy Eating, Viruses & Diseases
Grapefruit juice boosts power of cancer medication
Grapefruit juice, long known to have dangerous interactions with numerous prescription medications, appears to actually improve the use of a promising cancer dr
Join our newsletter list
Go
Email is required Want to know more?
Newsletters
Monday/Wednesday/Friday Newsletter
Read this next
Trending on MNN
1
A horse named Jenny takes a daily stroll through the streets of Frankfurt
2
What's next for SpaceX in its mission to send humans to space?
3
Notre Dame rooftop bees appear to have survived the fire
4
9 of the world's largest dog breeds
5
At least this year wasn't as bad as A.D. 536 — the worst year in human history
6
12 plants that repel unwanted insects
SPONSORED
Be a better human
10 ways to give without buying stuff
Thoughtful gifts can be experiences, time or even a special treat.
Carbon footprint reality
If you really want to reduce your footprint, have fewer kids and ditch your car.
Why you should kick the plastic straw habit
Straws create litter and end up in the marine food chain — but it doesn't have to be that way.
16 simple ways to reduce plastic waste
These easy things can decrease the amount of plastic trash you make.
9 skills they don't teach in school (but should)
From CPR to car repair, these building blocks create safe, successful adults.
SPONSORED
Join our newsletter list
Go
Email is required Want to know more?
Newsletters
Monday/Wednesday/Friday Newsletter
SPONSORED
Quick Links
MNN Tools
Connect
Channels
About Us
Advisory Board
Editors' Blog
Press
Privacy
Terms of Service
Blogs
Eco-glossary
Infographics
Lists
Photos
Videos
Contact Us
Newsletters
RSS
Earth Matters
Health
Lifestyle
Green Tech
Eco-Biz Money
Your Home
Family
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Flipboard
Instagram
LinkedIn
SPONSORED
Copyright © 2019 NARRATIVE CONTENT GROUP. All rights reserved.