Positive Bioscience
Enquire Now
Please Contact Us
Name * Email * Phone * Message *
toll free: 18001235835 Email: info@positivebioscience.com
Home
About us
Tests Available
Cancer Patients
PositiveSelect Lite
PositiveSelect Plus
PositiveSelect Match
PositiveSelect Ultimate
BRACAAnalysis CDx
Endopredict
Prolaris
CARIS Molecular Intelligence
Cancer Patients & Family
BRACAnalysis
MyRisk
Colaris
Patients
PositiveMed
PositiveCare
Healthy Individuals
PositiveProtect Pro
PositiveProtect Platinum
Positive Blog
Press
search
Is Your Diet Ruining The Effect Of Your Medicines?
posted on 7/3/2016
Did your doctor ever ask you to avoid eating a particular food or several other foods after prescribing a particular drug? While a few may have asked the reason behind it, most just nod at the doctor’s advice without giving the recommendation much thought. Similarly, your dietician, doctor or even pharmacist may have asked you to take certain pills on an empty stomach, with milk or even at a specific time of the day. If we have got you wondering why, already, then read along.
Certain foods are known to interfere with the metabolism of a particular drug(s) in the body. This may negate the therapeutic effect of the drug or result in unwanted side effects. In this article, we discuss the various ways in which certain foods interact with prescription or over-the-counter drugs.
So first things first, what is a food-drug interaction?
In simple terms, if a particular food decreases, increases or negates the therapeutic effects of a particular drug by influencing its metabolism and absorption is called a food-drug interaction.
The interaction can be of three types:
1. Interfering with the digestion and absorption of the drug in the body
2. Blocking the breakdown and metabolism of the drug by inhibiting enzymes
3. Mimicking the action of the drug(s) in the body.
While certain interactions may work in the favor of the drug improving its availability in the body others may shoot them up to toxic levels which can result in serious side effects as opposed to effects. And this discussion doesn’t just limit to conventional allopathic drugs but also natural health products and dietary supplements. The natural phytochemicals found in natural herbs or supplements can also alter the metabolism of prescription drugs.
Don’t Mix Your Meds With These Foods
Have you just started on a new medication but don’t find it effective at all? Don’t just blame the drug! It may be something that you’re eating. Here are six food-drug combinations you should avoid:
1. Vitamin K Rich Foods & Blood Thinners
One of the most well-recognized food-drug interactions is that of anticoagulants or blood thinners like Coumadin (Warfarin) mostly prescribed for heart diseases and vitamin K rich foods. So what’s the problem here? Vitamin K along with being a potential antioxidant is also a blood coagulant itself. This means—it completely negates the effects of blood thinning medicines. So if you’re on blood thinners like warfarin you may want to watch your vitamin K intake. Avoid eating cabbage, broccoli, spinach and other cruciferous vegetables. Speak to your doctor for advice.
2. Dairy Products &Antibiotics
Do you have the habit of downing your antibiotics with a glass of milk? If so then you should stop now. Milk, yogurt, cheese and other dairy products are known to prevent the absorption of antibiotics such as tetracycline and ciprofloxacin. Calcium present in these foods interacts with the antibiotics drugs to form an insoluble compound. Result—less of the drug in the system and hence less effects.
3. Tyramine Containing Foods & Antidepressants
Beer, wine, chocolate, processed cured meat and stinky cheese are all rich in tyramine which interferes with the action of MOAIs (Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors), a type of antidepressants. Tyramine slows down the metabolism of these drugs in the body and can result in a serious rise in your blood pressure levels.
4. Grapefruit & Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
If you start your morning with a grapefruit or a glass of its juice then you may want to rethink your breakfast. One of the most well publicized drug-food interaction; several studies have confirmed the interaction of grapefruit with more than 50 prescription drugs ranging from cholesterol-lowering drugs, heart medicines, immunosuppressant’s as well as thyroid medications and birth control pills.
Grapefruit contains a molecule—bergamottin which is believed to inactivate the drug metabolizing enzymes found in the liver, resulting in a buildup of these drugs to toxic levels. Other drugs that may be affected by grapefruit consumption are calcium channel blockers prescribed for high blood pressure and erectile dysfunction drugs
5. Natural Licorice & Digoxin (Heart Medications)
Popularly recognized as Mulethi in India, natural licorice is known to reduce the effectiveness of blood pressure medications as also digoxin—a drug for heart failure or abnormal heart rhythm. It contains glycyrrhizin which reduces the absorption of these medicines.
6. Coffee & A Lot Of Things
Seriously, your morning cup of java does interfere with the absorption of a lot of things. Anti-anxiety, asthma and thyroid medications can all interact with coffee and result in unwanted side effects. What’s more worrying is that certain medicines like antibiotics can impact the breakdown of caffeine in the body and cause extreme side effects.
Make sure to read the labels on your medicines and talk to your doctor with respect to any specific foods to be avoided with your prescription. Also, if you think your medicine is not making you feel any better or perhaps making your condition worse then approach your doctor immediately.
References:
1. Schmidt LE, Dalhoff K. Food-drug interactions. Drugs. 2002;62(10):1481-502. Review. PubMed PMID: 12093316.
2. Bushra R, Aslam N, Khan AY. Food-drug interactions. Oman Med J. 2011 Mar;26(2):77-83. doi: 10.5001/omj.2011.21. PubMed PMID: 22043389; PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3191675.
3. Chang CH, Wang YW, Yeh Liu PY, Kao Yang YH. A practical approach to minimize the interaction of dietary vitamin K with warfarin. J Clin Pharm Ther. 2014 Feb;39(1):56-60. doi: 10.1111/jcpt.12104. Epub 2013 Oct 28. PubMed PMID:24383939.
4. Won CS, Oberlies NH, Paine MF. Mechanisms underlying food-drug interactions: inhibition of intestinal metabolism and transport. Pharmacol Ther. 2012 Nov;136(2):186-201. doi: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2012.08.001. Epub 2012 Aug 4.Review. PubMed PMID: 22884524; PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3466398.
5. Diaconu CH, Cuciureanu M, Vlase L, Cuciureanu R. Food-drug interactions: grapefruit juice. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2011 Jan-Mar;115(1):245-50.PubMed PMID: 21682192.
6. Flockhart DA. Dietary restrictions and drug interactions with monoamine oxidase inhibitors: an update. J Clin Psychiatry. 2012;73 Suppl 1:17-24. doi:10.4088/JCP.11096su1c.03. Review. PubMed PMID: 22951238.
Recent Comments
8Comments
juliana jekison
20-February-2017
hello everybody , i am here today to gives out testimony on how i and my husband was cure on SHV 1 and 2 me and my husband has be with this virus over since 1 year and 2 months, we have be going true difference medication just to see we are cured of it' but still yet nothing sits to happens we have be buying difference drugs on it but nothing sits to change. we where not comfortable with this virus it make me more sick when ever i see then on me and on my husband body' they has be very stubborn most time and it get me so sad and sick when ever it get it-chins and pi-chins me. it has spreading allover my body and my husband body. we have tried all we can just to see that we have finally getting cure. one day we where advice by our medical doctor to switch to herbal remedy to see if there could be any help and then that was when i search for herbal remedy and how i could get it, and Luckily i saw a great post of mason carlton who was also sick of this same HSV over since 2 years and how it was cure of it by DR.OWONA HERBAL TRADITIONAL CURE TREATMENT. i was very very happy to see the wonderful publish on the website, i pick up the email and save it then i discussed it with my husband and with our medical doctor, so we all decided to give a try. that was when we contact him and i explained to him, and he reply by asking when we are needing the treatment and explained about the taking of the medication to us, so that was when will switch to his treatment and get it and also go with the taking of the medication according it was being explain to us, and now as i am publishing this post, me and my husband has be confirmed cure and very well healthy. DR.OWONA has be so good to my family. for those who are sick you can also get reach to him and also get cure on your virus. email drowonaspelltemple@gmail.com massage him on facebook here https://web.facebook.com/search/top/?q=dr.owona%20spell%20temple&em=1 or whatsaap him through this number +2348115204568 thanks for reading.﻿
sandra desmond
20-February-2017
Hello friends herpes has cure but doctor said herpes has no cure until i met Dr OWONA who help me in my life. I was infected with Herpes Genital in 2010, i went to many hospitals for cure but there was no solution, so I was thinking how can I get a solution,so that my body can be okay.until this faithful day as i was browsing the net I saw a testimony on how Dr.OWONA helped people in curing HERPES disease, quickly I copied his Email which is (drowonaspelltemple@gmail.com) so i contacted him for solution for my Herpes,so Dr OWONA told me that he is going to prepare herbal medicine for my health,then he prepared the medicine and luckily after two weeks my herpes was be cured.Dr OWONA is well recognize as one of the best herbalist doctor in Africa, you don't have to be sad anymore or share your tears anymore on this disease when the cure have already be found by Dr.OWONA herbal medicine,he also cure HIV,CANCER, ALS,HEPATITIS B, DIABETIC,contact him or visit his FACEBOOK PAGE on https://web.facebook.com/search/top/?q=dr.owona%20spell%20temple&em=1 or you can WHATSAPP him through this number +2348115204568
Brittany Valladeres
5-March-2017
I'm very happy for the great help that Doctor Okoh render to me .My name is Brittany Valladeres i live in Milwaukee Wisconsin.I have had lots of trouble with herpes. I have had cold sores on/in my mouth area, on my chin, on my thumb, I have seen allots of blogs and articles of some person speaking about how doctor okoh has cure them with his treatment and i was excited to contact this doctor OKOH through his EMAIL:( DROKOHSPELHOME@GMAIL.COM ) and Doctor okoh promise to help me with the cure and make me healthy again, he told me what to do and i went according to the instructions given by doctor okoh, after I'm done with it he told me to go and check myself in any of the health center in my country and i did, only for me get there and after checking, i was confirm that the virus which has been my worries and trouble is no longer in my body system, i have had about doctor okoh cure for any deadly disease and now I believe all the Testimonies about him on the internet is true.If you are out there suffering from any diseases, virus or health problems such as: HIV/AIDS, CANCER, GENITAL WARTS(HPV) HERPES (HSV 1&2), GONORRHEA,SYPHILIS, ANEMIA HEPATITIS B/C and other Sexual Transmitting Disease, You can get or contact doctor okoh if you also need of help website: www.drokohspelhome.wixsite.com/drokoh
JOYICE
7-March-2017
I was haven herpes 2 on my private part. I have had them for about 2 and a bit years. I am so scared what my mates are going to says if there should fined out i have herpes on my private part and due to the virus my girlfriend broke up with me. I have been to the Doctors 9 times to get it treated. They all come back. I have been using Tee Tree Oil and Wartner (You freeze them at home) and they seem to be keeping the smaller herpes small but they can't seem to treat the larger ones. They don't get any bigger, but then they can't shrink as much. They get smaller a little part at a time. At least they are getting smaller! As soon as I see a new herpes appearing, then I treat it. At the moment I have been using Tee Tree twice a week and then using Wartner every 2 weeks. I was wondering if there was any other information about how to get rid of it. I am only a teenager and I hate it most when it get pi-chins me to scratch it, it get sweets when scratching it most times! I want to get rid of it so bad! DR.OBA website has been a huge help and has helped me realize a lot more about me and my family of genital herpes! so that was when i switch for natural remedy to see if there could be any help by herbal remedy, i search and i saw a great posts by Sarah devise adebayo ehijactor and shanttel Merritt on about the great herbal doctor that get them rid of there disease infection. and this great herbal doctor was called DR.OBA so that was when i contacted him for my own treatment and he prepared me some herbs which i takes for some couples of days, and i take it as he says before i am to no me and my family was perfectly cure for it and never experience it again. please friends if you have herpes virus and you really wants to get rid of it, please contact this great DR.OBA for herbal treatment and you will get rid of it. EMAIL. drobaspellhome902@gmail.com cell phone contact +2348154692747 his whatsapp contact is +2348154692747 THANK TO YOU ALL FOR YOUR TIME OF READY MY TESTIMONY AND MOST ESPECIALLY YOU DR. OBA I PRAY TO GOD TO NEVER LET ME AND MY FAMILY FORGET YOU IN OUR LIFE'S
JOYICE
7-March-2017
I was haven herpes 2 on my private part. I have had them for about 2 and a bit years. I am so scared what my mates are going to says if there should fined out i have herpes on my private part and due to the virus my girlfriend broke up with me. I have been to the Doctors 9 times to get it treated. They all come back. I have been using Tee Tree Oil and Wartner (You freeze them at home) and they seem to be keeping the smaller herpes small but they can't seem to treat the larger ones. They don't get any bigger, but then they can't shrink as much. They get smaller a little part at a time. At least they are getting smaller! As soon as I see a new herpes appearing, then I treat it. At the moment I have been using Tee Tree twice a week and then using Wartner every 2 weeks. I was wondering if there was any other information about how to get rid of it. I am only a teenager and I hate it most when it get pi-chins me to scratch it, it get sweets when scratching it most times! I want to get rid of it so bad! DR.OBA website has been a huge help and has helped me realize a lot more about me and my family of genital herpes! so that was when i switch for natural remedy to see if there could be any help by herbal remedy, i search and i saw a great posts by Sarah devise adebayo ehijactor and shanttel Merritt on about the great herbal doctor that get them rid of there disease infection. and this great herbal doctor was called DR.OBA so that was when i contacted him for my own treatment and he prepared me some herbs which i takes for some couples of days, and i take it as he says before i am to no me and my family was perfectly cure for it and never experience it again. please friends if you have herpes virus and you really wants to get rid of it, please contact this great DR.OBA for herbal treatment and you will get rid of it. EMAIL. drobaspellhome902@gmail.com cell phone contact +2348154692747 his whatsapp contact is +2348154692747 THANK TO YOU ALL FOR YOUR TIME OF READY MY TESTIMONY AND MOST ESPECIALLY YOU DR. OBA I PRAY TO GOD TO NEVER LET ME AND MY FAMILY FORGET YOU IN OUR LIFE'S
Leon Adrian
11-August-2017
Hi Everyone My mind, for some reason, wont let go of my memory's of My Wife. I had a very big problem with my wife few months ago, that lead to her leaving me. All efforts to get her back proved abortive. one day while going through the internet i saw so many testimony of this great man called Dr.Goodluck and how he helped people with all kinds of problem, his advert was everywhere,. Although I never believed in spell casting, but I had no choice than to give him a try so i contacted Him, I was so desperate to have my wife back with me once again. So I did all he told me to do. He told me thatmy wife will come back to me in the next 17hours after the spell is completed. I was skeptical. He casted the spell for me and i was so anxious waiting to see or hear from her, it was just 14hours after the spell was done my wife called and said she was coming HOME and she was asking for forgiveness for her ever hurting me before…..It was a dream come through for me!!! that was how my family and relationship was save and our relationship is now stronger than ever.my advice to you out there facing same problem or even worst then mine cry no more and contact this great man called Dr Goodluck He's capable of handling any kind of problem. Contact him with his Email him at: goodluck05spellcaster@gmail.com Call or Whats-app him: +2348138654465 website http://drgoodluck.simplesite.com or http://lovespelltogetyourexback.weebly.com
3-September-2017
Dr Bello herbal cure is 100% Guarantee percent sure to cure your (HEPATITIS B AND ANY OTHER DISEASE) ,He is only person that i can boldly say he can cure any types of Disease.my wife was having HEPATITIS B for more than 5 year when i met Dr Bello online how and how he has cured so many people and how greatly he has helped many individuals online,so i contacted him and explained my wife situation to him and behold my wife was cure with his herbal medicine and now we are living happily, so to anyone issue on herpes challenges i advised that you contact him for help and he will send you the medication and you will be fine and OK : adeyemibello1990@gmail. com he can also cure any disease such as HIV/AIDS HEPATITIS B,DIABETICS,CANCER,HERPES E.T.C HE is the great herbalist man called Dr.Bello i must say a big thanks for curing my wife disease, i owe you in return. Thanks and be blessed sir.his Mobile number: 09035594773 or what’sapp him on 08107996445
Nelson
3-September-2017
Dr Bello herbal cure is 100% Guarantee percent sure to cure your (HEPATITIS B AND ANY OTHER DISEASE) ,He is only person that i can boldly say he can cure any types of Disease.my wife was having HEPATITIS B for more than 5 year when i met Dr Bello online how and how he has cured so many people and how greatly he has helped many individuals online,so i contacted him and explained my wife situation to him and behold my wife was cure with his herbal medicine and now we are living happily, so to anyone issue on herpes challenges i advised that you contact him for help and he will send you the medication and you will be fine and OK : adeyemibello1990@gmail. com he can also cure any disease such as HIV/AIDS HEPATITIS B,DIABETICS,CANCER,HERPES E.T.C HE is the great herbalist man called Dr.Bello i must say a big thanks for curing my wife disease, i owe you in return. Thanks and be blessed sir.his Mobile number: 09035594773 or what’sapp him on 08107996445
Name:
Email:
Leave a Comment:
Recent Posts
11-March-2019
23-February-2019
23-February-2019
Ignorance is no more a bliss!
31-January-2019
Glaucoma – a sneak thief of vision
4-January-2019
get in touch
Address: 1st Floor, Kohinoor City Mall, Gate No. 1, Opp. Don Bosco School, Premier Road, Kirol Road, Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070
Toll-Free: 18001235835
Email: info@positivebioscience.com
Find us on Google Maps
Tests Available
PositiveSelect Lite
PositiveSelect Plus
PositiveSelect Match
PositiveSelect Ultimate
BRACAAnalysis CDx
EndoPredict
Prolaris
CARIS Molecular Intelligence
BRACAnalysis
MyRisk
Colaris
PositiveMed
PositiveCare
PositiveProtect Pro
PositiveProtect Platinum
About Us
Company
Our Team
Scientific Advisory Board
Our Partners
Careers
Contact us
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Disclaimer and Limitations
Genetic Testing Mumbai
Genetic Testing Chennai
Genetic Testing Delhi
Geneting Testing Bangalore
Genetic Testing Hyderabad
BRCA test
Breast Cancer Treatment
Lung Cancer Treatment
Ovarian Cancer Treatment
Cancer Genomic Test
Personal Genomics
DNA Sequencing
Samarth Jain
Subscribe For Healthy Updates
Follow Us
Copyright ©2019 Positive Biosciences, Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Disclaimer: Use for educational and informative purposes only. Omissions, errors and incomplete representations are possible. Information has been created to assist non-medical professionals and may be condensed or not fully represented. Positive Biosciences Ltd. makes absolutely no representations to the accuracy of the information presented here, strongly advises independent verification of all facts and cannot be held accountable for any damages whatsoever. Before making any decision(s) a qualified medical professional must be consulted. Information or consultations from Positive Biosciences Ltd. does not qualify as advise from a medical professional.
×
JOB OPENINGS @ POSITIVE BIOSCIENCE
Positive Bioscience is driven by some of the brightest in the industry. We love creative people who take pride in their work and want to impact lives for the better. We are aggressively seeking highly talented and creative people to join our sales team focused on cancer on all over India. If you share our vision then do share your updated resume today on hr@positivebioscience.com to take things further.