Bill Cadwallader | Stop Dirty Electricity
702-845-5794 bill@stopdirtyelectricity.com
0 Items
Home
Order The Book!
Services
Home Inspections
Phone Consultations
Video Packages/DIY
Business and School Inspections
Audit Report
Order The Book!
About Us
About Bill
Press
Testimonials
Newsletter Sign Up
Common Concerns
Electric & Magnetic Radiation
Dirty Electricity
Wireless / WiFi / RF
The Cadwallader Protocol
Videos
Meters/Filters
Electric & Magnetic Radiation Meters
Dirty Electricity Meter/Filters
Wireless/WiFi Meter
Contact Us
Blog
SHOP
MEMBER LOGIN
Select Page
Video – Cancer in Your Kitchen-Microwave
by Bill Cadwallader | Jun 11, 2016 | Cancer EMF, Electromagnetic Radiation, EMF Radiation, Microwave Risk
We’ve all heard that microwave ovens emit dangerous radiation. But just how bad is it? Watch this 1-minute video and find out the shocking truth! You may even want to remove your pets while the microwave is being used.
Watch the video, click here.
Measure your risk today. I love the Acousticom2 meter that was used in the video. It is so easy to use. Press 1 button and just look at the lights and listen to the sound.
Red – Extremely Dangerous
Amber – Dangerous
Yellow – OK for Daytime hours if you’re not Electrically Hypersensitive
Green – Good for almost everyone – the only acceptable level for sleep
Order Today: https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/wirelessrf/
After having watched this brief video, are you ready to walk out of the room when your microwave is in use? And what about your pets? Don’t they deserve to exit the area when that microwave oven is in use?
A lady I met just recently told me about her husband. Whenever he would cook anything in a microwave oven he would stand right in from of it. She tried to tell her husband not to stand in front of the microwave oven. But he would not listen. Unfortunately, she finished by saying her husband now has cancer in his abdominal area. Every single microwave oven we have measured has generated levels of radiation that are unsafe. Right in front of the microwave oven, the Radiation level is normally 120 times more than the safe level.
The Acousticom2 is used to measure the Electromagnetic Radiation from a microwave oven. You can measure your own. I guarantee you will be a “hit” at any party! Seriously, this is something you will want to share with your friends and family to minimize their exposure to harmful, cancer-causing radiation.
Other wireless devices also put out high levels of Radiation which you can measure for yourself:
Baby Monitors – who would have thought,
Cell Phone Towers,
Microwave Towers,
TV & Radio Towers,
Antennas,
Consumer Wireless devices,
Electric Utility “Smart” Meters,
WiFi Routers,
Cell Phones,
iPads,
Tablets,
Kindle,
Xbox,
PlayStation,
Wii
Order Today: https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/wirelessrf/
Which light bulb should I use?
by Bill Cadwallader | May 28, 2016 | Dirty Electricity, Energy Saving Light Concern, Fluorescent Mercury
Frequently I get asked which are the safest light bulb.
In short, the old style light bulbs are the best, but they are not always available.
A little history – Thomas Edison invented the first feasible light bulb in the late 1800’s. That type of bulb was used for more than 100 years and called incandescent light bulbs.
In 2007, the U.S. Federal Government outlawed the future manufacture and importing of most of these bulbs. They did this for energy savings.
“The U.S. Federal Government started phasing out incandescent light bulbs in 2012, starting with the 100-watt bulb, and then followed by the 75-watt,” explained Melissa Andresko, communications director for lighting-automation company Lutron.
As of January 1, 2014 most of the 60- and the 40-watt bulbs went away.
Now we have 3 choices of light bulbs:
LED & CFL Bulbs
1 – CFL’s – Compact Fluorescent Light Bulbs – Worst
2 – LED’s – That are Non-Dimmable – OK
3 – New Halogen Bulbs that screw into light sockets – Best
1 – CFL’s have a number of problems.
Most CFL’s create Wireless & WiFi radiation and Dirty Electricity.
CFL’s have mercury in them and have to be disposed as a hazard waste.
Mercury is very toxic. In fact, it is a neurotoxin, meaning that it harms the brain and nervous system. It is also linked to kidney and liver damage and possibly cancer. Children are especially at risk because their brains and bodies are still developing. Many health effects of mercury can be permanent.
Dentists must also take care to manage their mercury-containing dental waste. Dental offices in Washington State are required to use and maintain a dental amalgam separator.
Washington State has recently added a surcharge of $1.00 for a package of 4 bulbs to cover the cost of disposing this hazard waste.
CFL’s contain so much mercury that the EPA and state environment officials consider them to be a hazard if they break.
They cannot be placed in landfills because thousands of decaying or broken bulbs would cause noticeable mercury contamination.
CFL’s are not allowed to be thrown normal trash.
** Below are the clean-up instructions from the U.S. EPA. **
2 – LED’s tend to be better. Always buy the Non-Dimmable.
I would recommend that you buy a Dirty Electricity Meter to measure any LED’s you have.
If you don’t have a Dirty Electricity Meter to test the LED’s, purchase NON-Dimmable LED’s.
There are some NON-Dimmable LED’s, though, that still create Dirty Electricity.
ALL Dimmable LED’s will create Dirty Electricity.
3 – New Halogen Bulbs that screw into light sockets.
These new Halogen Bulbs save electricity.
They generate NO Electromagnetic Radiation.
Best option.
4 – ** If you break a CFL bulb in your home, the following are the clean-up instructions from the U.S. EPA:
Before Cleanup
1. Have people and pets leave the room, and avoid the breakage area on the way out.
2. Open a window or door to the outdoors and leave the room for 5-10 minutes.
3. Shut off the central forced-air heating/air conditioning (HVAC) system, if you have one.
4. Collect materials you will need to clean up the broken bulb:
o Stiff paper or cardboard
o Sticky tape (e.g., duct tape)
o Damp paper towels or disposable wet wipes (for hard surfaces)
o Glass jar with a metal lid (such as a canning jar) or a sealable plastic bag(s)
________________________________________
Cleanup Steps for Hard Surfaces
1. Carefully scoop up glass fragments and powder using stiff paper or cardboard and place debris and paper/cardboard in a glass jar with a metal lid. If a glass jar is not available, use a sealable plastic bag.
NOTE: Since a plastic bag will not prevent the mercury vapor from escaping, remove the plastic bag(s) from the home after cleanup.
2. Use sticky tape, such as duct tape, to pick up any remaining small glass fragments and powder. Place the used tape in the glass jar or plastic bag.
3. Wipe the area clean with damp paper towels or disposable wet wipes. Place the towels in the glass jar or plastic bag.
4. Vacuuming of hard surfaces during cleanup is not recommended unless broken glass remains after all other cleanup steps have been taken. [NOTE: It is possible that vacuuming could spread mercury-containing powder or mercury vapor, although available information on this problem is limited.] If vacuuming is needed to ensure removal of all broken glass, keep the following tips in mind:
o Keep a window or door to the outdoors open;
o Vacuum the area where the bulb was broken using the vacuum hose, if available; and
o Remove the vacuum bag (or empty and wipe the canister) and seal the bag/vacuum debris, and any materials used to clean the vacuum, in a plastic bag.
5. Promptly place all bulb debris and cleanup materials, including vacuum cleaner bags, outdoors in a trash container or protected area until materials can be disposed of. Avoid leaving any bulb fragments or cleanup materials indoors.
6. Next, check with your local government about disposal requirements in your area, because some localities require fluorescent bulbs (broken or unbroken) be taken to a local recycling center. If there is no such requirement in your area, you can dispose of the materials with your household trash.
7. Wash your hands with soap and water after disposing of the jars or plastic bags containing bulb debris and cleanup materials.
8. Continue to air out the room where the bulb was broken and leave the HVAC system shut off, as practical, for several hours.
If you have further questions, please call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222.
________________________________________
Cleanup Steps for Carpeting or Rugs
1. Carefully scoop up glass fragments and powder using stiff paper or cardboard and place debris and paper/cardboard in a glass jar with a metal lid. If a glass jar is not available, use a sealable plastic bag.
NOTE: Since a plastic bag will not prevent the mercury vapor from escaping, remove the plastic bag(s) from the home after cleanup.
2. Use sticky tape, such as duct tape, to pick up any remaining small glass fragments and powder. Place the used tape in the glass jar or plastic bag.
3. Vacuuming of carpeting or rugs during cleanup is not recommended unless broken glass remains after all other cleanup steps have been taken. [NOTE: It is possible that vacuuming could spread mercury-containing powder or mercury vapor, although available information on this problem is limited.] If vacuuming is needed to ensure removal of all broken glass, keep the following tips in mind:
o Keep a window or door to the outdoors open;
o Vacuum the area where the bulb was broken using the vacuum hose, if available, and
o Remove the vacuum bag (or empty and wipe the canister) and seal the bag/vacuum debris, and any materials used to clean the vacuum, in a plastic bag.
4. Promptly place all bulb debris and cleanup materials, including vacuum cleaner bags, outdoors in a trash container or protected area until materials can be disposed of. Avoid leaving any bulb fragments or cleanup materials indoors.
5. Next, check with your local government about disposal requirements in your area, because some localities require fluorescent bulbs (broken or unbroken) be taken to a local recycling center. If there is no such requirement in your area, you can dispose of the materials with your household trash.
6. Wash your hands with soap and water after disposing of the jars or plastic bags containing bulb debris and cleanup materials.
7. Continue to air out the room where the bulb was broken and leave the H&AC system shut off, as practical, for several hours.
If you have further questions, please call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222.
________________________________________
Future Cleaning of Carpeting or Rugs: Air Out the Room During and After Vacuuming
1. The next several times you vacuum the rug or carpet, shut off the Heating & Air Conditioning system if you have one, close the doors to other rooms, and open a window or door to the outside before vacuuming. Change the vacuum bag after each use in this area.
2. After vacuuming is completed, keep the Heating & Air Conditioning system shut off and the window or door to the outside open, as practical, for several hours.
If you have further questions, please call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222.
Are Smart Meters really SMART ?
by Bill Cadwallader | Mar 22, 2016 | Dirty Electricity, Smart Meter Risk, WiFi Risk, Wireless Risk
Smart Meter
The award-winning documentary Take Back Your Power examines evidence of health & environmental issues, in-home privacy invasions, systemic over-billing, fires and hacking vulnerability. This documentary can be purchased at their web site.
Additionally, the EMF Safety network writes that all around the world people are reporting WiFi / Wireless radiation is affecting their health. The EMF Safety network has collected many smart meter health complaints. Utilities claim smart meters are safe, and compare them to cell phones. However cell phones, cell towers, WiFi and other wireless devices can also affect your health. Reducing your Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) exposure can benefit your overall health and wellness.
In Lyon, France on May 31, 2011 ‐‐ The WHO/International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) has classified radiofrequency electromagnetic fields (WiFi / Wireless Radiation) as possibly carcinogenic to humans (Group 2B), based on an increased risk for glioma, a malignant type of brain cancer
List of symptoms:
Sleep problems (insomnia, difficulty falling asleep, night waking, nightmares)
Stress, agitation, anxiety, irritability
Headaches, sharp pain or pressure in the head
Ringing in the ears, ear pain, high pitched ringing
Concentration, memory or learning problems
Fatigue, muscle or physical weakness
Disorientation, dizziness, or balance problems
Eye problems, including eye pain, pressure in the eyes,
Cardiac symptoms, heart palpitations, heart arrhythmias, chest pain
Leg cramps, or neuropathy
Arthritis, body pain, sharp, stabbing pains
Nausea, flu-like symptoms
Sinus problems, nose bleeds
Respiratory problems, cough, asthma
Skin rashes, facial flushing
Urinary problems
Endocrine disorders, thyroid problems, diabetes
High blood pressure
Changes in menstrual cycle
Hyperactivity or changes in children’s behavior
Seizures
Recurrence of cancer
And more
Many homeowners are unaware that Smart Meters were installed in most homes, businesses, and schools throughout the U.S.
These devices produce high levels of WiFi / Wireless Radiation and Dirty Electricity.
If you want to measure WiFi / Wireless / RF radiation on your own, I have found that this meter is the easiest to use:
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/wirelessrf/
To measure Dirty Electricity, this meter is very easy to use as well:
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/dirty-electricity-meter/
In some areas customers have the option of putting the old analog meter back on homes, businesses, and schools. Putting back the previous meter is normally called the “Opt-Out” program. Consider yourself fortunate if you do have this choice.
You will have to call your local Electrical Utility Company to find out if this is available to you.
Below is information on Nevada’s Opt-Out Program.
To Opt-Out, call Nevada Energy at 702-402-4273 in Southern Nevada or 1-888-559-9744 in Northern Nevada. Have your account number ready when you call so that Nevada Energy can schedule your Opt-Out appointment.
In Southern Nevada there is a one-time set-up fee of $52.86 and a monthly recurring fee of $8.72. In Northern Nevada there is a one-time set-up fee of $52.44 and a monthly recurring fee of $8.72. The fees will appear on your bill as a “non-standard meter charge.” These are the fees as of 2016.
Only customers of record (the person whose name is on the bill) with Nevada Energy are authorized to participate in the program.
Participation in the Opt-Out Program is limited to 12,000 electric customers in Southern Nevada, 4,500 electric customers in Northern Nevada and 4,500 gas customers in Northern Nevada. Participation is on a first-come, first-served basis.
Opt-Out today!
Sources: https://takebackyourpower.net/
http://emfsafetynetwork.org/
http://puc.nv.gov/FAQ/Smart_Meters_Residential/#8
Is Computer Radiation Damaging Health? Part2
by Bill Cadwallader | Feb 29, 2016 | Laptop Risk, WiFi Risk, Wireless Risk
Laptop Safety
More about Laptop Electromagnetic Radiation – EMR
If you have not read Part 1 of this blog, please read Part 1 before looking at Part 2 of the article from EM Watch from south England on Computer radiation.
Here are some more great tips to minimize your Electromagnetic Radiation exposure.
.
If you have a laptop close to you on the desk, your torso and head can be exposed to high levels of Electromagnetic Radiation and so can the upper part of your legs because Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) travel down through your desk.
So, if you work with a laptop on your desk, push it forward (away from you) as far as you can while remaining comfortable. Always use a laptop in the battery mode. When a laptop is plugged in, high Electromagnetic Radiation can be generated.
Except when travelling, try not to rest hands on a laptop keyboard or use the built-in touchpad. A better solution is to plug in an external USB keyboard and USB mouse. These generate no Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR), provided they are wired.
When a laptop is pushed forward on a desk and the external keyboard is between you and the laptop, the tips of the fingers are still only a few inches from the laptop and are exposed to Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) while resting them on the laptop keyboard.
Many people work with their laptop actually on their laps, in trains, planes or just at home. This is the way to get a huge Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) exposure, especially to the reproductive organs. Other cells may also be damaged as well as reproductive cells.
What is true for laptops applies equally to iPads, tablets, Kindles, smart phones, notebooks, and any type of a portable computing device. They all generate WiFi / wireless / RF radiation, unless
1. Bluetooth and WiFi are turned OFF and
2. Airplane mode is turned ON.
.
WiFi / Wireless / RF Radiation
.
This is becoming more and more of an issue for computer users, as WiFi and wireless networks are everywhere. Computers can be connected to networks with wires. Not as “cool” as wireless connections and not as convenient; but smarter than introducing a known carcinogen into your home.
Almost everyone now has WiFi / Wireless network in their home. They would be wise at least to switch off a WiFi and a wireless network before going to bed every night. If that is too hard to remember, I have installed a $4 timer that turns the WiFi and a wireless network off when people go to bed and turns it on when they wake up. You can find these timers at any hardware store; then at least they would have eight hours a day free from Electromagnetic Radiation. Their body can use that time to repair some of the damage!
If you decide not to use WiFi or Wireless, you still have to actually disable WiFi / Wireless capability on each device that offers the option:
your computers,
printers,
routers, and
anything which communicates with them.
Sometimes you press a switch or a key to disable wireless or sometimes you have to change software settings. If you have a WiFi / Wireless / RF meter, use it to check to see what that equipment is really generating. I like this household meter very much – https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/wirelessrf/
Other Computer Equipment
.
External hard drives generate as much Electromagnetic Radiation as those inside a computer.
Speakers – some of the woofers generate a powerful EMR.
Most newer headphones & headsets are wireless which generate WiFI / Wireless / RF radiation.
Uninterruptible power supplies (UPS) produce some of the largest EMFs found in the office.
Printers – generate all four types of Electromagnetic Radiation:
1. Electric Radiation
2. Magnetic Radiation
3. WiFi / Wireless / RF Radiation
4. Dirty Electricity
Turn printers OFF when not printing.
Routers, modems and network hubs and switches – if used wirelessly will produce a powerful Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) which extends for many feet.
External power supplies and chargers for all of the above (and also for anything else) produce Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR)
If you choose to use wireless in your home, you will also benefit from having a WiFi / Wireless / RF meter to measure your exposure.
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/wirelessrf/
You might even change your mind about going wireless! Even if you don’t use wireless devices at home, you may still want to check for WiFi / Wireless from outside sources.
Sources:
http://emwatch.com/computer-radiation-may-damage-your-health/
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/
Is Computer Radiation Damaging your Health? Part1
by Bill Cadwallader | Feb 11, 2016 | Baby Monitors Risk, Computer Radiation, Electromagnetic Radiation, WiFi Risk
Computer Radiation
EM Watch from south England had a very interesting article on Computer radiation.
If you use computers at work or at home, or both, then computers could be your biggest source of Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR). Could this radiation threaten your health?
.
.
Computers today can generate up to four types of Electromagnetic Radiation:
1 Electric Radiation
2. Magnetic Radiation
3. WiFi / Wireless / RF Radiation
4. Dirty Electricity
.
All types of radiation are potentially harmful – even the World Health Organization now calls them possible carcinogens (i.e. they may cause cancer).
In fact, this radiation has been linked with many serious diseases:
• Asthma
• Alzheimer’s
• Cancer
• Depression
• Heart Disease
• Hormone imbalances
• Damage to nerves, immune system and reproductive systems.
Headaches
Symptoms of Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) Exposure
Symptoms of frequent and prolonged Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) exposure are often dismissed as being caused by stress, overwork, or just getting older. These include
• Headaches
• Tiredness
• Sleep disturbances
• Concentration and memory disorders
• Dizziness
• Skin prickling, itching, burning or flushing sensations on the face or elsewhere
• Uncomfortable, dry or swollen mucous membranes in the throat, ears or sinuses
• Muscle and joint pains
• Even some heart palpitations
Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity (EHS)
Noticing symptoms related to Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) exposure can be a sign that a person is developing a condition known as Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity (EHS).
With EHS, when an afflicted person is exposed to certain types of Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR), they often experience symptoms — usually one or more of those in the list above.
This can be a real problem for these people because they may experience pain and discomfort at very much lower levels of radiation than those normally considered “safe.” In severe cases, they may have to avoid any and all Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) – a serious handicap in today’s world.
EHS is quite common. At least 3% of the population may be affected, and that percentage is apparently increasing quite rapidly. It is generally thought to be caused by over-exposure to EMR,
1. either a massive single exposure, or
2. More often a cumulative exposure over a long period.
Computer usage is frequently implicated in this process, especially when WiFi / Wireless communications are used. Fortunately, computer users may be able to reduce their EMR exposure by following some simple, easy-to-do guidelines and suggestions:
10 things you can do NOW to minimize radiation in your home.
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com
Even a TV show on the AMC Network – “Better Call Saul” – deals with a person with an extreme case of Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity. Even though the person has an extreme case of Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity, we are all affected in some way or another.
.
How to avoid Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) exposure from computer usage
To minimize the amount of radiation you absorb and the risk to your health:
1. Don’t get too close to Electromagnetic Radiation sources.
2. Use as little as possible WiFi / Wireless / RF with your computer and network equipment.
All the advice in this article boils down to one or both of these two suggestions.
.
Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) Basics
Many people feel so overwhelmed by this issue of Electromagnetic Radiation that they just give up on it. They think that it really is not possible to live in the modern world without being exposed to radiation from one source or another, all day long. But with a little knowledge, it is possible. Any source of EMR creates a field of energy around it, called the electromagnetic field, or EMF. This field is strongest right at the source and gets progressively weaker the further away you are from the source — like heat from a fire. WiFi / Wireless / RF radiation gets weaker very slowly (which is why it is used for communications) so the EMF extends for a greater distance. It is usually not practical just to get further away from WiFi / Wireless / RF radiation – EMR sources. That is why we recommend wired alternatives, not wireless.
One baby monitor I measured was still unsafe at 30 feet.
Please see the blog: Are Baby Monitors really Safe?
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/are-baby-monitors-really-safe/
.
Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) from your Computer Screen
There are several sources of Electromagnetic Radiation in a typical computer. Most of them are inside the computer, but the screen (monitor) also radiates this kind of energy. Modern flat computer screens (LCD or LED) generally produce far less EMR than the old-fashioned CRT’s (cathode ray tube) screens did, and also less than the older flat screens. But move even flat screens as far away as possible.
If you have an Electric radiation & Magnetic radiation meter you can determine your own safe viewing distances. I recommend the ME3030B for Electric Radiation and Magnetic Radiation.
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/magnetic-electric-meter/
.
Low-frequency EMR sources inside your computer
The Electromagnetic Radiation inside your computer is the WiFi, power supply, and the disc drive motors. The WiFi is being generated 24 hours a day – unless you turn it off and hard wire your desktop PC. The power supply generates constant EMR. The disc drive only generates EMR when it is busy reading or writing data, which is pretty much all the time if you are using your computer. Right at this source, the Electromagnetic Radiation might be very strong. So if a part of your body is near or in direct contact with the computer or your laptop, that part of your body could be exposed to a very high Radiation. When working with a desktop computer, keep the computer case on the floor, not on your desk. And position it as far away from you as the cables will stretch. Of course you can’t do that with a laptop.
Stay tuned for Part 2…..
Sources:
http://emwatch.com/computer-radiation-may-damage-your-health/
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/
« Older Entries
Search for:
Recent Posts
Are Wireless Earbuds Dangerous? 250 Scientists Think So
EMF Quiet Zones
Video – Cancer in Your Kitchen-Microwave
Which light bulb should I use?
Are Smart Meters really SMART ?
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 June 2016 May 2016 March 2016 February 2016 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015
Blog Categories
Blog Categories Select CategoryBaby Monitors RiskBill CadwalladerBluetooth RiskCadwallader ProtocolCancer EMFCell Phone RiskCell Phone Towers FearsCell Phones Children RisksCFL ConcernsComputer RadiationCordless Phone RadiationDimmer Switches ThreatDirty ElectricityDirty PowerElectric RadiationElectromagnetic RadiationEMFEMF RadiationEMF SensitivityEnergy Saving Light ConcernFluorescent MercuryHealth Concerns EMRHealth EMFIPad DangeriPhone DangerLa Quinta Middle SchoolLaptop RiskLED HazardMagnetic Fields HealthMagnetic Radiation RisksMicrowave RiskMobile Phone RiskMobile Phone Tower RisksPower Line RiskRF RiskSmart Meter RiskSolar Power RiskStop Dirty Electricity ConcernTablet RiskTestimonialsThe Bio InitiativeUncategorizedWiFi RiskWireless Risk
About Us
Bill Cadwallader, MBA, EMRS
Certified Electromagnetic Radiation Specialist
Stop Dirty Electricity
702-845-5794
bill@stopdirtyelectricity.com
Stop Dirty Electricity provides EMF consulting, video packages, home, school, and business inspections in the Las Vegas, Nevada, Arizona, Utah, San Diego and Orange County areas to protect you from electromagnetic radiation.
Our Disclaimer
Stop Dirty Electricity does not claim to diagnose, treat or cure any medical condition or disease. Stop Dirty Electricity.com shall not be liable for incidental or consequential damages, lost profits or revenues to the fullest extent such liability may be disclaimed by law.
EMF Inspection Areas We Serve
– Southern Nevada, Las Vegas, Henderson, North Las Vegas, Boulder City, Mesquite, Laughlin and Pahrump
– Southern Utah, St. George and surrounding areas
– Northern & Eastern Arizona Including Flagstaff, Kingman, and Havasu
– San Diego County California
– Orange County California
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Copyright © 2018 · Stop Dirty Electricity · Website by SMH Design Solutions