Cysteamine Cream (CC): The evidence against hydroquinone and treatment of hyperpigmentation (For Professionals) « Globale Dermatologie
Globale Dermatologie
search
Français
English
Dermatologie Cysteamine Cream (CC): The evidence against hydroquinone and treatment of hyperpigmentation (For Professionals)
Home
About
General Information
For Professionals
Classification of Links according to Country
Register
Contact
Section : Conference Notes
Rechercher un article
General Information
Education
Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) – A Guide
Patient Support Groups
Sexually Transmitted Infections – STI
Skin Conditions
Pigmentation, Hyperpigmentation and Solutions
"Traditional" Depigmenting Products
Pigmentation Disorders
Distribution of Skin Problems in the Population
Onset of Skin-disorders According to Age
Frequency of Skin Disorders
Preponderence of Skin Disorders according to Sex (Male or Female)
Topics in other languages
German (Deutsch)
Behandlungen
Hauterkrankungen
Pigmentierung, Hyperpigmentierung und Lösungen
Pigmentstörungen
Traditionelle depigmentierende Substanzen
Präsentation von Globale Dermatologie
Sexuell übertragbare Krankheiten (STD)
Arabic (العربية)
Chinese (中文)
汉语
漢語
Spanish (Español)
Enfermedades de la piel
Enfermedades de Transmisión Sexual
Pigmentación, hiperpigmentación y soluciones
Productos despigmentantes “tradicionales”
Trastornos de la pigmentación
Presentación del Globale Dermatologie
Tratamiento
Italian (Italiano)
Malattie della pelle
Malattie trasmissibili sessualmente – MTS
Pigmentazione, iperpigmentazione e soluzioni
Disturbi della pigmentazione
Prodotti depigmentanti "tradizionali"
Presentazione di Globale Dermatologie
Trattamento
Japanese (日本語)
性感染症（STD）
治療
皮膚病
色素沈着、色素沈着過剰症と解決策
従来の脱色剤
色素異常症
Portuguese (Português)
Doenças de pele
Doenças Sexualmente Transmissíveis – DST
Pigmentação, hiperpigmentação e soluções
Distúrbios da pigmentação
Produtos despigmentantes "tradicionais"
Tratamento
Russian (русский язык)
Заболевания кожи (состояния кожи)
Заболевания, передающиеся половым путем (ЗППП) или инфекции (ИППП)
Лечение
Пигментация, гиперпигментация и решения
Нарушения пигментации
Основные депигментирующие вещества
Tagalog
Mga Paggamot
Mga Pekas, Pagdidilim Ng Kulay Ng Balat At Mga Solusyon
Pagkabagabag Sa Kulay Ng Balat
Tradisyonal Na Produktong Pampaputi
Mga Sakit Na Nakukuha Sa Pagtatalik
Mga Sakit Sa Balat
Treatments used in Dermatology
Topical Treatment (Creams-Ointments-Lotions)
Oral Treatment
Non-drug Treatment
Beauty-enhancing (Aesthetic) Treatment
Laser Treatment
Professionals
"Global Dermatology" around the world
Geographical Distribution of Access
Academic Links
Articles
Management opinions
Collection of Old Dermatology Books
Conferences
Patient-oriented Therapeutical Explanations
Botulinum Toxin and Hyaluronic Acid Injections, Chemical Peels
Treatment with Medical Substances (oral or topical drugs)
Topical treatment
Oral Treatment
Non-drug Treatment
Patient Support Groups
History & Terminology
Industries at the service of Dermatology
Laser Companies and their Medical Devices used in Dermatology
Cosmeceutical Laboratories
Cysteamine Depigmentation Cream
Pharmaceutical Companies and their Medication used in Dermatology
Scientific Literature
Acne Vulgaris
Laser Hair Removal
Conference Notes
Controversy
Presentations
Specialized Subjects in Dermatology
Dermatology in Infectious Diseases
Hansen's Disease (Leprosy)
Dermatology in Systemic Disease
Mesothelioma and the Skin
Alcohol (OH) and the Skin
Cholesterol and the Skin
Seborrhoeic Keratosis (seborrheic keratosis)(seborrheic warts)(age spots)
Tokelau (Tinea Imbricata)
Teledermatology
Translator of Medical Dermatological Terms
VIPs
Political Figures
Movie Stars
Cysteamine Cream (CC): The evidence against hydroquinone and treatment of hyperpigmentation (For Professionals)
Hydroquinone is the gold standard in the treatment of hyperpigmentary disorders but there are 3. things to bear in mind:
-a concentration of 4% or more is needed to be effective.
-because of a higher concecntration, side effects such as exogenous ochronosis are a risk. Because of a lack of evidence pertaining to long term toxicology issues, the substance is banned in Europe for use as an over-the-counter (OTC) drug.
-hydroquinone is a non-natural substance which is part of the phenol molecules. It is toxic to pigment cells (melanocytes) and its effects can be irreversible.
Cysteamine is a non melanocytoxic molecule comparable in this sense to others such as arbutin and kojic acid.
It has been known for its depigmeting effect for over 5 decades and in the early 2000’s in was shown by an Australian team of researchers to exert its effect by inhibiting tyrosinase, a key enzyme involved in the early phases of melanin synthesis.
The problem which is now solved with a new technology was that the molecule was unstable and malodorous when compiled in topical preparations
1. Hydroquinone 4% was compared with Cysteamine Cream (CC). 6 subjects were treated with Hydroquinone (HQ) on one ear and CC on the other. Another 6 were treated with the vehicle alone. Frequency of application: once daily for 10 days
-a considerable depigmentation is already visible to the naked eye.
-colorimetry shows that the degree of pigmentation is lower in CC than the vehicle. There is no staistically significant difference between CC and HQ.
-biopsies of the skin show similar results when the quantity of melanin is measured (spectrophotometric analysis)
2. 10 Individuals with dark skin (phototype IV – VI of Fitzpatrick) are treated every evening for 3 weeks.
A close up picture of the skin (dermoscopy) shows uniform depigmentation
Confirmation of visual results is done with colorimetry (statistically significant: p smaller than 0.05 according to student’s test)
3. 40 subjects with melasma are treated nightly for 6 weeks.
A close up picture of the skin (dermoscopy) shows uniform depigmentation
Confirmation of visual results is done with colorimetry (statistically significant: p smaller than 0.05 according to student’s test)
Irritation is observed in 2 patients which is reveresed when the treatment is stopped.
A notice to users: because of a dilation of blood vessels, a heat sensation may be felt upon applying the product the first time.
4. Depigmentation is also seen in the 35 patients treated for post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation (same treatment regimen as “3”).
However there is no comparison with the natural spontaneously favorable evolution of post inflammatatory hyperpigmentation.
5. To conclude Cysteamine Cream is effective, safe and user-friendly and can be considered a treatment option for the treatment of hyperpigmentary skin conditions.
adapted for the online version
Hsu C. Cysteamine Cream as a new depigmenting product. 9th Asian Dermatological Congress (ADC) 13 – Hong Kong, SAR
Related posts:
Cysteamine cream as a new skin depigmenting agent
Dermatology in Asians (For Professionals)
Melasma (Chloasma) (Pregnancy Mask) Diagnostic elements, epidemiology and importance of sunprotection
Tags: chloasma, Cysteamine cream, Cysteamine crème, dépigmentation, Hydroquinone, hyperpigmentation post-inflammatoire, melasma, postinflammatory hyperpigmention, skin whitening, Cystemine cream, cysteamine for hyperpigmentation, cysteamine क्रीम, cloasma viso, what is depigmeting, treatment against hydroquinone, produit avc hydroquinone, over the counter cysteamine cream, lichen plan hydroquinone, cysteamine whitening
Category : chloasma - Modifie le 07.12.2013Category : Cysteamine cream - Modifie le 07.12.2013Category : Cysteamine crème - Modifie le 07.12.2013Category : dépigmentation - Modifie le 07.12.2013Category : Hydroquinone - Modifie le 07.12.2013Category : hyperpigmentation post-inflammatoire - Modifie le 07.12.2013Category : melasma - Modifie le 07.12.2013Category : postinflammatory hyperpigmention - Modifie le 07.12.2013Category : skin whitening - Modifie le 07.12.2013
子供に見られる皮膚疾患 (日本語)
Acupuncture to treat Itch ? (For Professionals)
Related Articles
Cysteamine cream as a new skin depigmenting agent
Dermatology in Asians (For Professionals)
Melasma (Chloasma) (Pregnancy Mask) Diagnostic elements, epidemiology and importance of sunprotection
Facebook
Twitter
Terms of service