Adverse Side Effects of Commonly Used Ingredients in Skin Whitening Products
« Homepage / Skin Care / "Adverse Side Effects of Commonly Used Ingredients in Skin Whitening Products"
Adverse Side Effects of Commonly Used Ingredients in Skin Whitening Products
07.10.2013 Author: admin Category: Skin Care 0 Comment »
In many parts of Asia, South America and Africa, skin whitening has become big business. The popularity of these products has risen steadily over the years and demand has surged so quickly for a better cream, ointment, soap, lotion or even pill that many manufacturers have resorted to using highly toxic materials as skin whitening ingredients and utilizing unsafe production practices.
Suffice it to say that out of a dozen skin whitening products available over-the-counter today, at least half are suspect. There are actually brands with active ingredients that can cause a variety of unpleasant side effects, ranging from scarring to kidney problems to cancer. In spite of restrictions and even outright banning, these skin whitening ingredients are still in use in a good number of products. Here are three of the most commonly used and their side effects:
Hydroquinone
Hydroquinone was once the standard upon which most skin whitening products were based upon. As the active ingredient in toners and astringents, hydroquinone promised an easy and pain-free treatment for common problems with skin hyperpigmentation by inhibiting the production of melanin. Melanin is the pigment that occurs naturally in human skin, producing its color. By preventing the skin’s ability to produce melanin naturally, hydroquinone helps lighten skin color.
Hydroquinone was the main ingredient in many skin lightening products that appeared in the U.S. market, becoming more popular thanks to its approval as an over-the-counter treatment by the FDA.
Unfortunately, hydroquinone is not as safe as it was purported to be. There have been studies that linked the ingredient to a variety of health issues, including increased risks of developing cancer and causing problems in the adrenal gland. Some studies have also linked hydroquinone to ochronosis, a disorder that, ironically, results to darker, grayish-black skin pigmentation.
Today, over-the-counter skin whitening products containing hydroquinone are banned in Japan, Australia and in Europe. It is still available as an ingredient for certain skin treatments but it is recommended with a dermatologist’s prescription to ensure proper dosage and use.
Mercury
Mercury, a toxic heavy metal, can also be found as an active ingredient in numerous skin whitening products, usually in the form of mercury chloride. As a reagent, it is highly soluble in water, making it easier to mix in a solution.
Even if used in small dosages, mercury chloride can pose a significant threat to health. Mercury is a known cause of kidney and neurological damage, as shown in laboratory tests in rats and in studies involving humans. Over the long term, the adverse effects of mercury to the kidneys, nerves and the brain are also irreversible.
Mercury chloride, incidentally, is also an ingredient used in the manufacture of fungicides, insecticides, wood preservatives and for the preservation of biological and anthropological specimens. Before the discovery of antibiotics, mercury chloride was used for the treatment of syphilis.
Today, the FDA bans over-the-counter skin whitening products that use even the smallest concentration of mercury.
Glucocorticosteroids
Corticosteriods are hormones produced naturally by the body’s adrenal glands. These hormones control the body’s immune responses, regulate carbohydrate metabolism and help decrease inflammation. Glucocorticosteroids are a type of corticosteroid. They are being manufactured synthetically for use in the treatment of a variety of conditions and skin problems, including asthma, arthritis, dermatitis, psoriasis and eczema. They are also used as the active ingredient in skin whitening products.
Glucocorticosteroids are popular in certain countries as ointments and creams. They are applied to lighten common skin hyperpigmentations such as age spots and scars. Glucocorticosteroids are considered safe but only up to a certain dosage and length of use. As a treatment, for example, it is only recommended for continuous application for up to 15 days, after which application should be stopped.
Prolonged use of a skin whitening product containing glucocorticosteroids as an active ingredient raises the risk of developing adverse side effects such as inflammation, acne, osteoporosis, cataracts and muscle weakness.
The use of these ingredients for skin care is being monitored and regulated by the FDA. Such regulations or restrictions may not always be implemented in other countries, which make it important that buying customers equip themselves with the right information not just regarding the product’s efficacy but also its safety.
Current Tags:
Skin
Share this article
More from Category:
Here you can write a comment to the post "Adverse Side Effects of Commonly Used Ingredients in Skin Whitening Products"
Click here to cancel reply.
Log In to write a review.
Back to First comment Back to Top of Page
Category
Acne
Diseases & Conditions
General
Men's Health
Mental Health
Nutrition
Skin Care
Sleep
Supplements & Vitamins
Weight Loss
Women's Health
Diseases & Conditions
There is a growing problem in the US with more children with attention deficit ...
If your organization does not currently have an MRI machine, installing one ...
Vitiligo is a skin disease in which the skin loses pigment due to the destruction ...
Does your skin sometimes become so unbearably itchy that you have no other choice ...
Men's Health
Penis enlargement pills? How they work?
Buy Generic Viagra Soft Tabs (Viagra Meltabs)
Impotence? Causes, symptoms and treatment for impotence
Where to Buy, Purchase, Order Generic Viagra In UK?
Penis Enlargement Pills FAQ
Main Causes of Impotence
Men and the psychology of Impotence
Mental Health
Natural Stress Remedies...
Psychologically, chronic stress can manifest as a constant awareness of being overburdened and overwhelmed. The physical body reacts by entering a state of high alert. Over time, this can lead to health problems, ranging from simple ...
Six Simple Ways to Get Happy...
Allow Yourself to Feel Sad While it may seem counter-intuitive, allowing yourself to feel sad can open the door to happiness. Lives are like seasons: sometimes it’s summer and the sun shines, sometimes it’s winter and you feel ...
Effective Ways to Cure Panic Attacks...
It appears that with a combination of physical and psychological situations almost anything might cause a panic attack in the appropriate circumstance. There isn’t a quick fix to get rid of anxiety attacks because of this, yet, ...
Nineteen Frequent Anxiety Attack Symptoms...
For starters, before I detail ordinary panic and anxiety attack symptoms, I’d like to take a moment to clarify that a “symptom” is something that doctors observe to distinguish specific illnesses and diseases. The majority of ...
Causes of Anxiety Attacks...
Before we can discuss the causes of anxiety attacks, you need to understand that there are a lot of different things that can occur in someone’s life that result in anxiety disorders. While one person might get set off by a specific ...
Buy Generic Valium Online Without Prescription...
Anxiety, actually, is a normal human reaction to stress. But when you feel permanent excessive anxiety or irrational dread of routine, it may cause a disabling disorder. For most people, the anxiety disorder fluctuates, sometimes worsening ...
Women's Health
The Abortion Pill (Mifeprex, RU 486) was discovered and became popular in France ...
There have been numerous studies and articles written in medical literature ...
VIAGRA for woman is a wonderful innovation of our civilization. There is such ...
Women are not little men! Women have more side effects from drugs than men ...
A 37 year old Chicago woman who uses Sildenafil Citrate (generic Viagra) regularly ...
Particular drugs for better health are produced in order to have intended effects. ...
“I only have to do three things to look halfway decent, curl my eyelashes, ...
Join
Login
Password
Remember me
Lost password
Register
Feedbacks:
They Read:
Penis Enlargement Exercises (583759)
Background on MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) equipment (39863)
Botox – What You Need to Know and Your Doctor Isn’t Telling (38300)
Where to Buy, Purchase, Order Generic Viagra In UK? (31499)
Sleep Aids (26659)
What is Generic Viagra and the Difference between Pfizer Viagra and Generic Viagra? (26035)
Comments:
Subscription:
Subscribe to the RSS feed
Last
Random
Fascinating Facts About Your Eyes...
Thursday | 24.10.2013 | 0 Comment
Walk For A Whole New You...
Wednesday | 23.10.2013 | 0 Comment
Never Take Medicines Without Consulting the Doctor...
Tuesday | 22.10.2013 | 0 Comment
First aid for electric shock...
Monday | 21.10.2013 | 0 Comment
How to make your hair grow faster and INSTANTLY...
Sunday | 20.10.2013 | 0 Comment
How Will You Pick Good Acne Skin Care Products?...
Tuesday | 03.09.2013 | 0 Comment
Discover the Best Method to Burn Calories and Lose...
Thursday | 26.09.2013 | 0 Comment
Diet tips...
Friday | 20.09.2013 | 0 Comment
The Best Brain Food...
Tuesday | 20.08.2013 | 0 Comment
My Personal Tips to Lose Love Handles in No Time a...
Monday | 23.09.2013 | 0 Comment
Supplements & Vitamins
It’s hornlike to intend finished the period without chance most antioxidant supplements ...
As an individualist who enjoys a flourishing style there a whatever keyroles that ...
Creatine is one of the best supplements available right now for anyone who is looking ...
The task of a good diet and attitude (self image) are the only things that you lose ...
Weight Loss
Lasting Weight Loss In Healthy Way...
Obesity new story in the past week than usual. The Journal of the American Medical Association an article on the causes of death in the United States in 2000. Poor nutrition and inactivity approximately 400,000 ...
Reveal the Right Diet Plan for You!...
You’re trying to battle those stubborn pounds, but how can you tell which diet plan is best for you? “You need to work with your body instead of working against it,” says Leah Baxter,* a long time dieter. ...
Importance of Weight Loss...
Weight loss is one method of keeping oneself attractive and healthy as well. Weight loss is defined as total reduction in one’s weight. When you engage in physical work, get unwanted fat removed from your body, ...
Healthy Weight Loss Tips and Techniques...
Weight loss is universally defined as reduction of weight in a human’s body. It may either be caused by fluid loss, illnesses and diseases that take away the appetite of a person, or through intentional weight ...
How to Lose Weight Easily...
Weight loss is scientifically defined as reduction in the total weight of a human being’s body due to natural causes such as diseases and fluid loss, release of body fats and lean mass (muscles, tissues and tendons) ...
Acne
Diseases & Conditions
General
Men's Health
Mental Health
Nutrition
Skin Care
Sleep
Supplements & Vitamins
Weight Loss
Women's Health
Acne
Men’s Health
Women’s Health
Mental Health
Skin Care
Sleep
Nutrition
General
© 2019. Public Health Training Center