Does Hydroquinone Have a Dark Side? | Office for Science and Society - McGill University
Email
OFFICE 365
Minerva
myCourses
myMcGill
AskMcGill
Maps
Staff directory
Column 3
About us
About McGill
Administration & Governance
Admissions
Alumni Resources
Campus Life
Employment Opportunities
Faculties & Departments
McGill in the Community
Research & Innovation
Teaching & Learning
Column 2
For faculty & staff
Faculty & Staff Home Page
Human Resources
Academic Personnel Office
Libraries
IT Services
Financial Services
Staff Development
Directory of Resources
What's new
News
Events
McGill Reporter
Other Publications
Column 1
For students
Students’ Home Page
Programs & Courses
Libraries
Tuition & Fees
Financial Aid
Athletics
Important Dates
Career Planning
IT Services
Directory of Resources
AskMcGill
Quick Links McGill University
Office for Science and Society
Separating Sense from Nonsense
Enter your keywords
Main navigation
Home
Latest Content
Who We Are
Public Lectures
Books
OSS In the News
Events
Subscribe to the OSS Weekly Newsletter!
Sign-Up Here
Home
Does Hydroquinone Have a Dark Side?
They were once mistakenly thought to be caused by a disease of the liver, so they are called “liver spots.” Actually these skin blemishes are caused by a buildup of the skin pigment melanin and are associated with aging and long-term exposure to ultraviolet light.
Joe Schwarcz PhD | 20 Mar 2017 |
Health
History
Add to calendar
Facebook
LinkedIn
Tweet Widget
They were once mistakenly thought to be caused by a disease of the liver, so they are called “liver spots.” Actually these skin blemishes are caused by a buildup of the skin pigment melanin and are associated with aging and long-term exposure to ultraviolet light. Technically referred to as “Lentigo senilis,” these hyperpigmented spots usually just present a cosmetic problem unless they develop irregular borders and undergo a colour change, in which case they need to be evaluated by a physician. People bothered by such “senile freckles” can look to hydroquinone for help.
When applied as an ingredient in a skin cream, this chemical inhibits the activity of tyrosinase, an enzyme that is necessary for the formation of melanin. This brings up three questions. How well does hydroquinone work, what concentration is needed, and what risks, if any, does its use present? Hydroquinone does work, and its efficacy, as is to be expected, is dose related. Need a minimum of 1% in a cream to see any result, and really significant effects kick in at 4%. In the U.S., hydroquinone is available in over the counter products at concentrations up to 2%, anything more than that requires a prescription. In Europe and in Canada all hydroquinone products require a prescription. Why the difference?
Different regulatory agencies arrive at decisions in different ways. In this case, Europe and Canada look at worst case scenarios while the U.S. evaluates hydroquinone based on its actual use in cosmetics. Rat feeding studies have suggested that hydroquinone may be carcinogenic, although this is contentious. In humans, in rare cases, accidental ingestion of photographic developer fluid containing hydroquinone has resulted in toxic reactions, but in a controlled trial with human volunteers, ingestion of 300-500 mgs daily for months produced no observable effects. As far as topical application goes, no systemic reaction has ever been noted, and no link to skin cancer has ever been found. But there is a chance of skin irritation, especially if sun protection is not used after application, as well as a rarely seen blue discoloration known as “ochronosis.” With higher concentrations there is the possibility of losing too much pigment resulting in white spots. It is mainly for the latter reasons, and some concern that hydroquinone has not been studied with enough rigour, that Canada and Europe are concerned about over-the-counter availability.
But aside from hydroquinone products that have been adulterated with mercury compounds, which has happened in Africa, no significant problems with 2% solutions have cropped up. Hydroquinone also occurs in nature, found in the bearberry, madder and mulberry plants, extracts of which are touted as “natural skin lightening agents.” These do work, but whatever issues arise with hydroquinone apply to these preparations as well. The fact that the hydroquinone comes from a natural source is irrelevant. Basically, 2% hydroquinone preparations, no matter what the source, can reduce age spots effectively and the alarm sounded by some activist organizations about such products is not backed up by evidence.
Keywords:
age spots
aging
cosmetics
hydroquinone
pigment
skin
What to read next
Textured Breast Implants Shown to be Riskier than Smooth-Surface Alternatives
17 Apr 2019
Is it true that bilberries are good for the eyes?
12 Apr 2019
Dentists can treat cavities without using a drill
12 Apr 2019
A Little Mercurial History
10 Apr 2019
Under the Microscope: Eyelashes
8 Apr 2019
The Right Chemistry: Are eggs good or bad for you?
5 Apr 2019
top of page
Department and University Information
Office for Science and Society
McGill University
801 Sherbrooke Street West
Montreal, Quebec H3A 0B8
Column 1
Suggested Science Sites
American Council on Science and Health
Quackwatch
Respectful Insolence
Science-Based Medicine
Sciences in the Mural of Life
Sense About Science USA
The Body of Evidence
The Skeptics Society & Skeptic Magazine
Column 2
World of Chem (WOC) Courses
CHEM 181: Food
CHEM 183: Drugs
Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram
McGill University
Copyright © 2019 McGill University
Sign in (site maintenance)