Marijuana Addiction Treatment: Help With Weed Abuse Rehabilitation
Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888)-459-5511
Menu
Addiction Guides
Addiction Facts
What is Addiction?
Recognizing Addiction
Drug Abuse Statistics
Substance Abuse Triggers
Polydrug Use: Get the Facts
Drug Testing
Addiction Stories
Meth Addiction Stories
Heroin Addiction Stories
Gambling Addiction Stories
Marijuana Addiction Stories
Cocaine Addiction Stories
People at Risk
College Students abd Drug Abuse
Dual Diagnosis
Teenagers and Students
Veterans and Addictions
PTSD and Addiction
Self-Assessment
Substances
Alcohol Addiction
Effects of Alcoholism
Alcoholism Treatment
Alcoholism Recovery
Alcoholism Resources
Street Names of Addictive Substances
Understanding Drugs
Types of Drugs
Illicit Drugs
Marijuana
Crystal Meth
Spice
Cocaine
Crack
GHB
Amphetamine
Speed
Prescription Medication
Ambien
Ketamine
Vicodin
Gabapentin
Accutane
Provigil
Morphine
Zoloft
Prozac
Trazodone
Barbiturates
Fioricet
Stimulants
Nicotine
Adderall
Kratom
Ecstasy
Ritalin
Benzodiazepines
Valium
Restoril
Midazolam
Librium
Klonopin
Halcion
Ativan
Xanax
Hallucinogens
LSD
AL-LAD
Peyote
DMT
Ayhuasca
Shrooms
Opioids
Opiates
Heroin
Opium
Opana
Suboxone
Vicoprofen
Methadone
Fentanyl
Dilaudid
Demerol
Codeine
Tramadol
Oxycodone
Hydrocodone
Norco
Percocet
Sedative-Hypnotics
Lunesta
Sonata
Other Substances
Sleeping Pills
OTC Drugs
Diet Pills
Inhalants
Painkillers
Narcotics
Antidepressants
NPC
Anxiety Medication
Cyclobenzaprine
Lexapro
Baclofen
Vyvanse
Phenibut
Kava
Celexa
Treatment Guides
Treatment Stages
Addiction Treatment: the Overview
1 ► Intervention
2 ► Inpatient and Outpatient Therapy
3 ► Lifelong Commitment
Treatment for Substance Abuse: An Overview of Addiction Recovery Programs
Resources
Relapse Prevention Plan
Support Groups: An Overview
When a Loved One Has an Addiction
Drug Addiction Medications
Addiction and Rehab Hotlines
Find AA meetings
Find NA Meetings
Addiction Treatment Facility Locator
Rehab Guides
Facilities
Best Drug Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Outpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Drug Rehabs Near You
Outpatient Rehabs Near You
Types
Court Ordered Rehabs
Free and State Funded Rehabs
Rehabs for Veterans
Dual Diagnosis Rehabs
F.A.Q.
Rehab Question Answered
Can I Beat an Addiction On My Own?
How Long Does Rehab Take?
Medicaid and Medicare
Addiction Recovery Costs
Substances
LSD Rehab
Heroin Rehabs
Cocaine Rehab
Crystal Meth Rehab
GHB Rehab
Ecstasy Rehab
About Us
Our Community
Scholarship
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Addiction Treatment Events
Marijuana Addiction Treatment: Recover From Weed Abuse
Free 24/7 rehab helpline > (888)-459-5511
Marijuana addiction treatment involves behavioral therapy techniques that help a user change drug-seeking habits and build coping skills to help them lead a drug-free life. Treatment for pot abuse is mainly necessary for users who have developed a dependence on the substance, which impairs such individual’s quality of life.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
Table of contents:
Does Marijuana Addiction Require Treatment?
What Are The Signs One Needs Cannabis Addiction Help?
What Does Pot Rehabilitation Program Look Like?
What Are The Types Of Weed Therapy?
Is It Necessary To Treat Marijuana Addiction?
Weed is one of the most common substances adults use. Although cannabis is believed to be a relatively safe drug, it can still lead to substance abuse in certain cases, which is characterized by addiction and dependence. At this point, marijuana abuse treatment becomes necessary.
Therapy for cannabis addiction becomes necessary when the individual cannot stop using the substance despite its apparent negative effects. Adults who seek marijuana addiction treatments usually average more than ten years of daily marijuana use with several attempts at quitting.
Pot dependence causes severe physical and psychological changes that occur as a result of the user’s brain been adapted to large and frequent amounts of the substance. The brain, in turn, reduces its production of and sensitivity to its own cannabinoids, so the user becomes “addicted” to an external one in the drug. The weed abuse therapy restores the normal brain functioning.
People who use weed before the age of 18 are up to 7 times more likely to develop pot addiction and, thus the therapy for weed abuse is even more necessary for adolescents.
People who have been diagnosed with pot addiction need to visit substance abuse rehabs for marijuana therapy to get the substance off the system, regain control of one’s life, and prevent complications such as impaired mental development, fetal demise in a pregnant woman, and deaths resulting from indirect causes.
Moreover, taking too much of the substance is likely to result in the od on weed placing the person at risk of poisoning and injuries. This is another reason to seek marijuana addiction help.
Signs That One Needs Marijuana Addiction Treatment
There are certain telltale signs that show that one needs treatment for weed abuse. These are features which imply that one’s brain has adapted to the substance and requires cannabis detox.
The need to consume larger amounts of the substance to experience the same desired effects as previous small amounts produced.
Feeling of an intense urge to use the drug
Devoting a lot of time and resources into obtaining or using the drug.
Developing adverse physical changes – called withdrawal symptoms – including restlessness, insomnia, shakiness, anxiety, and sweating when one stops using the substance for a short time.
Continuous use of the drug despite serious impairment in work, academics, and social activities because of the abuse.
Using the drug in dangerous situations, such as driving.
Doing things that one will normally do just to obtain the drug, such as stealing.
These are the general signs and symptoms that indicate the need for cannabis addiction therapy; however, there may be more specific signs that depend on the method of administration. For example, specific symptoms of vaping weed include nose bleeds and dry mouth.
What Do Marijuana Addiction Treatment Programs Look Like?
Weed rehabilitation is similar in a lot of ways to the treatment for other drug addictions. Treatment mostly involves sessions of behavioral therapy held in a comfortable, non-confrontational environment to enable them to detoxify safely.
The facility may also administer medicines to reduce withdrawal symptoms that occur during detox. Following detox, the addiction therapist provides follow up care and rehabilitation services to prevent pot relapse. These programs are scheduled in marijuana anonymous meetings and rehab centers.
Types Of Marijuana Addiction Treatments
The main types of marijuana addiction treatment include cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), contingency management (CM), and motivational enhancement therapy (MET). These treatment options may be used singly or in combinations. The approach that integrates all three types produces the best outcomes.
Motivational Enhancement Therapy
MET addresses a user’s ambivalence about quitting. The aim of this technique is to strengthen the individual’s motivation to change. A typical session of MET comprises one to four 45 to 90-minute individual therapy sessions. The weed addiction therapist typically uses a non-confrontational approach to help the user decide to change.
Some MET techniques include reflecting, strategic expression of empathy, affirming, creating goals and plans to execute them, reinforcing self-efficacy, and rolling with resistance.
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
CBT focuses on helping the patient gain requisite skills to quit the substance and to avoid factors that can interfere with a successful cannabis detox. The user learns ways of avoiding or coping with pot cravings and drug use triggers and builds skills for drug refusal and problem-solving.
CBT is typically delivered in weekly marijuana clinics in 45-60 minute individual or group therapy sessions. A user can have as many as 16 sessions to learn the relevant coping skills fully.
Contingency Management
Contingency management is focused on frequent monitoring of the drug use behavior using positive reinforcements to increase motivation for reduced drug intake. It adopts an abstinence-based voucher system in which vouchers are contingent on abstinence.
In this case, weed addiction test is done twice weekly, with the value of the voucher increasing with each subsequent negative testing. The patients then exchange these vouchers for prosocial retail items which are intended to serve as alternatives to smoking marijuana.
Aftercare: The Key to Sustainable Marijuana Recovery
Aftercare remains the key to fully abstaining from this substance. It involves a series of interventions offered after the initial phase of treatment, with the aim of helping the individual achieve a drug-free life and prevent a relapse. A huge factor of aftercare is emotional support: Patients need a lot of support from friends and family to help them achieve this goal and stay drug-free again, the absence of this increases the risk of pot relapse.
If you or your loved one is addicted to marijuana and need counseling or advice on treatment, please call our 24/7 helpline on (888)-459-5511 to speak to a representative.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
Marijuana Addiction Treatment: Recover From Weed Abuse
Rate this article
Addiction Resource » Addictive Substances: The Anatomy of Drug Addiction » Is Weed Addictive? Marijuana Use, Abuse, and Addiction » Marijuana Addiction Treatment: Recover From Weed Abuse
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Free 24/7 Treatment Helpline
(888)-459-5511
Speak confidentially with a compassionate counsellor.
Feel hope
without commitment.
Learn More About Marijuana Addiction
Marijuana Addiction Overview
Marijuana Drug Type
Indica And Sativa Strains
Pot Abuse Facts And Statistics
How To Get Medical Weed Card
Cannabis Nicknames
Marijuana Street Price
Marijuana High
Weed Paraphernalia
Marijuana-Infused Edibles
Drinking Marijuana
Signs Of Weed Use And Abuse
Cannabis Effects On Body
Weed Effects On Brain
Marijuana Side Effects
Pot Overdose
What Is Dabbing Weed
Signs Of Dabbing Marijuana
How Long Pot Stays In System
Marijuana Withdrawal
Marijuana Detox
Weed Use In Teens
Marijuana And Pregnancy
Does Weed Cause Cancer?
Cannabis Addiction Treatment
Marijuana Relapse
Drug Rehab Resources
Best Rehabs
Local Rehabs Locator
Free Rehabs
Court-Ordered Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs
Outpatient Rehabs
Jewish Rehabs
Veterans Rehabs
Holistic Rehabs
LGBT Rehab Centers
Dual Diagnosis Rehab Centers
Alcohol Hotlines
Rehab Hotlines
Luxury Rehabilitation
Private Rehabs
Christian Rehabs
Women-Only Rehabs
Men-Only Rehabs
Rehabs for Couples
Family Rehabs
Teen Rehabs
State-Funded Rehabs
No-Insurance Rehabs
Executive Rehabs
Resort Rehabs
Drug Rehab Information
Speak to a representative concerning substance abuse treatment or request printed material on alcohol or drugs.
(888)-459-5511
The information available at AddictionResource.com is not a substitute for professional medical help.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here
© 2014 - 2019 Addiction Resource
Terms And Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
About Us
➤