Sodium Bicarbonate - Topics - MedsChat
MedsChat
MedsChat
Drugs: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
FORUMSDRUGSABOUT
Drug Forums Post Your Question or Story Get Our Newsletter Live Feed RSS (XML) Feed
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
Top Prescription Drugs Drug Categories NDC Code Database Half Life Calculator Recent FDA Approvals RX Discount Card Current Health News
Medical Disclaimer Terms of Use Privacy Policy About Us Facebook Twitter
Sodium Bicarbonate
Showing Topics 1 - 20 of 100+
Sodium Bicarbonate
Sodium bicarbonate (IUPAC name: sodium hydrogen carbonate), commonly known as baking soda, is a chemical compound with the formula NaHCO3. It is a salt composed of a sodium cation (Na+) and a bicarbonate anion (HCO3−). Sodium bicarbonate is a white solid that is crystalline, but often appears as a fine powder. It has a slightly salty, alkaline taste resembling that of washing soda (sodium carbonate). The natural mineral form is nahcolite. It is a component of the mineral natron and is f...
Omeprazole + Sodium Bicarbonate
Omeprazole, sold under the brand names Prilosec and Losec among others, is a medication used in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease, peptic ulcer disease, and Zollinger–Ellison syndrome.[1] It is also used to prevent upper gastrointestinal bleeding in people who are at high risk.[1] Omeprazole is a proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) and its effectiveness is similar to other PPIs.[5] It can be taken by mouth or by injection into a vei...
Aspirin, ASA + Citric Acid + Sodium Bicarbonate
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company of Elkhart, Indiana, United States. Alka-Seltzer contains three active ingredients: aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) (ASA), sodium bicarbonate, and anhydrous citric acid.[1] The aspirin is a pain reliever and anti-inflammatory, the sodium bicarbonate is an antacid, and the citric acid reacts with the sodium bicarbonate and water to form effervescence.[2] It...
Omeprazole + Sodium Bicarbonate + Magnesium Hydroxide
Magnesium hydroxide is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula Mg(OH)2. It occurs in nature as the mineral brucite. It is a white solid with low solubility in water (Ksp = 5.61×10−12).[4] Magnesium hydroxide is a common component of antacids, such as milk of magnesia, as well as laxatives. Contents 1 Preparation 2 Uses 2.1 Precursor to MgO 2.2 Health 2.2.1 Metabolism 2.2.2 History of milk of magnesia 2.3 As food additive 2.4 Other niche uses 2.4.1 ...
Citric Acid + Potassium Bicarbonate + Sodium Bicarbonate
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company of Elkhart, Indiana, United States. Alka-Seltzer contains three active ingredients: aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) (ASA), sodium bicarbonate, and anhydrous citric acid.[1] The aspirin is a pain reliever and anti-inflammatory, the sodium bicarbonate is an antacid, and the citric acid reacts with the sodium bicarbonate and water to form effervescence.[2] It...
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 + Potassium Chloride + Sodium Bicarbonate + Sodium Chloride
Polyethylene glycol (PEG) is a polyether compound with many applications, from industrial manufacturing to medicine. PEG is also known as polyethylene oxide (PEO) or polyoxyethylene (POE), depending on its molecular weight. The structure of PEG is commonly expressed as H−(O−CH2−CH2)n−OH. Contents 1 Uses 1.1 Medical uses 1.2 Chemical uses 1.3 Biological uses 1.4 Commercial uses 1.5 Industrial uses 2 Health effects 3 Available forms and nomenclature 4 Production 5...
Bisacodyl + Polyethylene Glycol 3350 + Potassium Chloride + Sodium Bicarbonate + Sodium Chloride
Polyethylene glycol (PEG) is a polyether compound with many applications, from industrial manufacturing to medicine. PEG is also known as polyethylene oxide (PEO) or polyoxyethylene (POE), depending on its molecular weight. The structure of PEG is commonly expressed as H−(O−CH2−CH2)n−OH. Contents 1 Uses 1.1 Medical uses 1.2 Chemical uses 1.3 Biological uses 1.4 Commercial uses 1.5 Industrial uses 2 Health effects 3 Available forms and nomenclature 4 Production 5...
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 + Potassium Chloride + Sodium Bicarbonate + Sodium Chloride + Sodium Sulfate
Polyethylene glycol (PEG) is a polyether compound with many applications, from industrial manufacturing to medicine. PEG is also known as polyethylene oxide (PEO) or polyoxyethylene (POE), depending on its molecular weight. The structure of PEG is commonly expressed as H−(O−CH2−CH2)n−OH. Contents 1 Uses 1.1 Medical uses 1.2 Chemical uses 1.3 Biological uses 1.4 Commercial uses 1.5 Industrial uses 2 Health effects 3 Available forms and nomenclature 4 Production 5...
Eno Kids Dosage
How much eno should be given to 5 year old kid to relieve stomach pain? ## ENO is an over the counter antacid containing sodium bicarbonate (baking soda), and citric acid. According to the manufacturer's product page, "ENO powder is indicated for adults and children who are at least 12-years-old." Source: eno.co.in/eno-faq That said, you may have to look at other alternatives for your 5-year-old. On a side note, I never knew a child who couldn't have baking soda... Hope this helps! ...
Updated March 31, 2018 in Sodium Bicarbonate
1 REPLYSHARERSS
h 86 cancer cure and alternatives
Thanks for the info placed on here about H86. One of the cures for cancer that I have been reading on is sodium bicarbonate, that's right, baking soda. Many cancers are of the fungus type. Though red in appearance, they are white as most funguses are. There are many videos on youtube about the use of sodium bicarbonate, one being a cure for cancer. It is worth checking out. ## Baking soda is a cure for cancer. Cancer can not live in an alkaline environment. The trick is to get the baking soda into the cancer cell which has a protection against it. Cancer cells require 22 times the amount of sugars as normal cells. Originally baking soda was heated with maple syrup 1 part maple syrup 3 parts real maple syrup. This boils over easily so use a double boiler and put 1 or 2 spoons in a gl... ...
Updated September 23, 2018 in Sodium Bicarbonate
1 REPLYSHARERSS
Ramipril And Amlodipine
i am 31 years having chronic nephritis, HBP of 170//120, Doctor says blood is really bad now, required biopsy ASAP, taking Ramipril, AMlodipine and sodium bicarbonate. But its been long time my BP doesnt come down. whats is possibly going with my heart and kidneys. please help me. ## Chronic Nephritis is an inflammation of the Nephrons of the Kidneys and there are several things that can cause it, such as infections and autoimmune disorders. The only way to find out what has caused it and to get proper treatment is to follow your doctors advise for testing and treatments. Kidney problems are known to contribute to or cause high blood pressure and, in such cases, it can be resistant to treatment, however, getting a resolution to help with the kidney problem can also help to lower your bl... ...
Updated July 5, 2011 in Ramipril
1 REPLYSHARERSS
go lightly side effects
i took about 32 ounces of this stuff to clean me out BUT had to stop cause my st0mach was killing me. ## Go Lytely contains: polyethylene glycol, potassium chloride, sodium bicarbonate, sodium chloride, and sodium sulfate And is used to clean out the bowels, usually before medical testing. And yes, anything that works basically as a laxative can cause those types of side effects and you may also experience: bloating, vomiting or nausea. Have you contacted your doctor about this? ## I drank one glass of golightly and in 15 minutes, I became severely short of breath, started shaking, and my head was swimming. I then looked up the side effects and they were there. I took one sip several hours later and instantlay experienced the same reaction. Be aware! ...
Updated July 26, 2012 in Polyethylene Glycol
2 REPLIESSHARERSS
sambong re-leaf forte 500mg
sambong re-leaf forte can also help to cured the clamidia? ## i have a kidney stone on both kidney measuring 1.1cm it is possible to dissolve by taking 3x a day of 500mg sambong forte and sodium bicarbonate? as my doctor's prescription ## i have a fatty liver and follyps gall bladder.it is possible to cure my illness with this sambung relief forte.its been 5mnths already that i have this kind of problems.thank you very much.. ## I am taking 2 tablets os Sambong releaf 3x a day. Will it really help in dissolving my kidney stones? ## is sambong can cure fatty liver and gallstones? pls inform me im starting taking sambong now. ## i just bought sambong re leaf forte 500 mg because i frequently urinate at night. can i use this without doctors advice just as a supplement and how many can ... ...
Updated July 27, 2018 in Sodium Bicarbonate
20 REPLIESSHARERSS
Alka-Seltzer PM Aspirin, ASA + Diphenhydramine
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company of Elkhart, Indiana, United States. Alka-Seltzer contains three active ingredients: aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) (ASA), sodium bicarbonate, and anhydrous citric acid.[1] The aspirin is a pain reliever and anti-inflammatory, the sodium bicarbonate is an antacid, and the citric acid reacts with the sodium bicarbonate and water to form effervescence.[2] It...
Alka-Seltzer Gas Relief Simethicone
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company of Elkhart, Indiana, United States. Alka-Seltzer contains three active ingredients: aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) (ASA), sodium bicarbonate, and anhydrous citric acid.[1] The aspirin is a pain reliever and anti-inflammatory, the sodium bicarbonate is an antacid, and the citric acid reacts with the sodium bicarbonate and water to form effervescence.[2] It...
Round white pill with 294 R on one side
It’s a white round pill with 294 R on one side and blank on the other side. What is the name of this pill? ## Hi Bee Bee, I located a round white pill imprinted with 294 R that is reportedly identified as Sodium Bicarbonate (650mg); an orally disintegrating antacid tablet. For verification, the manufacturer is listed as Rising Pharmaceuticals and the pill itself carries a National Drug Code of 64980-294-10. Additionally, this pill is depicted as being 11mm in size. [1] dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/fda/fdaDrugXsl.cfm?setid=d5344816 Hope this helps! ...
Updated December 22, 2017 in Sodium Bicarbonate
1 REPLYSHARERSS
Alka-Seltzer Gold Antacid Medicine Citric Acid + Potassium Bicarbonate + Sodium Bicarbonate
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company of Elkhart, Indiana, United States. Alka-Seltzer contains three active ingredients: aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) (ASA), sodium bicarbonate, and anhydrous citric acid.[1] The aspirin is a pain reliever and anti-inflammatory, the sodium bicarbonate is an antacid, and the citric acid reacts with the sodium bicarbonate and water to form effervescence.[2] It...
White capsule with blue stripe and 732
I found a white capsule with a blue stripe around the middle. It had the number 732 on the right side. What is it? ## Hello Connie, After doing a bit of research I found a pill that meets your description, Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate. This medication is used to treat frequent heartburn. Here is some additional information according to DailyMed. Active Ingredients: - Omeprazole 20mg - Sodium Bicorbonate 1100mg Inactive Ingredients: - Fd&c Blue No. 1 - Fd&c Red No. 40 - Gelatin - Polysorbate 80 - Sodium Lauryl Sulfate - Sodium Stearyl Fumarate - Titanium Dioxide NDC: 0113-0058 Color: White (blue band) Size: 23 mm Shape: Capsule I hope this information helps. ...
Updated May 11, 2018 in Omeprazole
1 REPLYSHARERSS
Alka-Seltzer Original Antacid-Pain Relief Medicine Aspirin, ASA + Citric Acid + Sodium Bicarbonate
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company of Elkhart, Indiana, United States. Alka-Seltzer contains three active ingredients: aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) (ASA), sodium bicarbonate, and anhydrous citric acid.[1] The aspirin is a pain reliever and anti-inflammatory, the sodium bicarbonate is an antacid, and the citric acid reacts with the sodium bicarbonate and water to form effervescence.[2] It...
Alka-Seltzer Plus Cold and Cough Effervescent Tablets Chlorpheniramine + Dextromethorphan + Phenylephrine
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company of Elkhart, Indiana, United States. Alka-Seltzer contains three active ingredients: aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) (ASA), sodium bicarbonate, and anhydrous citric acid.[1] The aspirin is a pain reliever and anti-inflammatory, the sodium bicarbonate is an antacid, and the citric acid reacts with the sodium bicarbonate and water to form effervescence.[2] It...
Can't Find What You're Looking For? Submit a New Topic Below
No registration needed.
Simply fill out the form below.
1) Title / Subject: *
What are the main keywords of your topic?
2) Message: *
3) Your Name or Nickname: *
4) Email Address: Optional, stays hidden.
Get notified when a reply is posted here.
Subscribe to Health Newsletter
5) Text Verification: *
Prevents SPAM.
Click here to show the question
Enter the text you see below:
=
Enter the text you see below:
=
* Enable JavaScript to make this easier
This form will be submitted securely
I'm on a public or shared computer
Discussion Thread Guidelines: Any participation in the discussion threads signifies your agreement with the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. (1) Act civilized and be respectful towards others. No profanity, vulgarity or lewd / suggestive content is allowed. (2) Posts encouraging, facilitating, or seeking advice about the abuse of medications or other substances are prohibited. (3) Personal contact information (such as telephone numbers, email addresses, etc) is not allowed to appear on our discussion threads. (4) We do not allow our forums to be used for buying, selling, trading, or for the promotion of a product or service. (5) Posting external links to other web sites is not allowed without our prior approval. (6) We reserve the right to edit or remove content which we find objectionable to the community at our sole discretion.
DAILY HEALTH NEWSLETTER
Join over 130,000 subscribers and we'll send you a Free RX Discount Card. Your email is never shared.
LIKE & FOLLOW US
FacebookTwitter
Browse Home Page Post Your Question or Story RX Discount Card Daily Health Newsletter
Community Drug Forums Live Feed RSS (XML) Feed
Drugs Top Prescription Drugs Drug Categories NDC Code Database Half Life Calculator Recent FDA Approvals Current Health News
Drug Index
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
About Medical Disclaimer Terms of Use Privacy Policy About Us
Free RX Discount Card
Save up to 75% at your pharmacy. Ready to use!
Note: All times displayed are GMT - 7.
This information has been independently compiled and is for informational purposes only. It is not intended to be a substitute for medical advice from a qualified healthcare professional; nor is it intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. For more details please see the Medical Disclaimer. This page was last updated on 23 April 2019.
We are committed to your privacy.
Copyright © 2005-2019 All Rights Reserved. MedsChat® is a registered trademark of Limelight Innovations L.L.C. 9888 W Belleview Ave #5000, Denver, CO, 80123, USA