Powerful Living, Issue #031-Why Quit Weed?
Why Quit Weed??
"I don't do drugs. I am drugs.” ~ Salvador Dali
Intro
Respiratory System
The Nose
Carcinogens
Premature Aging
Energy
Relationships
Sleep
Regulation
Addiction
Tips
Q &A
Next Month:
If you’re a pot smoker and you’re functional, why quit weed? I’m often asked this question. Smoking marijuana has become so common that when I do a drug assessment and ask the question ‘do you use drugs?’ The client will give me their list’ and not even mention marijuana. So then I ask, “what about weed?’ This usually surprises them: ‘Weed? Oh yeah, I smoke weed’” Smoking pot has become so common that marijuana is not even considered a drug.
This newsletter is not meant to preach. Many people maintain a good career and quality of life without developing a dependency on it. There are others -- particularly those who are coping with chronic disease – who benefit from the effects of relaxation and pain reduction. However, there are costs as well as benefits, so weigh the costs with the benefits for yourself. And aside from the legal issues, these reasons can help you make an informed decision, when you ask yourself the question -- “Why quit weed? Respiratory system: Marijuana takes a huge toll on the respiratory system. You inhale deeply and your lungs can be burnt from inhaling the smoke. You can also develop a dry cough -- the “weed smokers’ cough”.
The nose: Your nose develops more mucus. When you wake up, the nasal congestion can feel as if you have a cold or suffer from allergies.
Carcinogens: If you think cigarettes are bad for your health, marijuana has more carcinogens. You also inhale deeper, so you’re causing yourself more damage than cigarettes.
Premature Aging: Just as tobacco affects the aging of your skin and discolors your teeth, marijuana does the same thing. You’ll also notice that if you stop smoking, your eyes will look clearer, your skin will be smoother and the color of your skin will look healthier.
Energy: Pot makes you lethargic. You don’t feel like doing much and you become content to be lazy. You don’t have the energy or motivation, to run, play sports, or participating in activities.
Relationships: Your relationships with non smokers will be affected. If you’re stoned, you don’t want to be around them and they aren’t interested in hanging around with you.
Sleep: Smoking marijuana before bed disrupts the sleep cycles. When you quit (although you may think it doesn’t affect you) you’ll sleep better.
Regulation: There is no regulation on marijuana, so there is no standardization. This means that it can be laced with anything. Sometimes you’ve spent your money and find unsatisfactory or frightening results.
Addiction: You can become dependent on marijuana. Like alcohol or any other drug, you develop a tolerance to it and need to use more to get the same effect.
Drugs affect different people in different ways ex. some get ‘the munchies’ – not all. Continuous use can also affect your sex life Are you addicted? Take this test
if you want to quit, but like the calming effects cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) can give you the tools to get the same results – drug free, and these tools will change your outlook for life. You can also get help by getting recovery coaching
An added benefit: If you’re effective on pot, you’ll probably be amazed how powerful you would be without it.
Change your thinking
Tips
If you’ve been using marijuana and this information has motivated you to quit, Here are some tips to help you do it.
Q &A
Q
How can I pull a friend/co-worker away from the bars? He is there 7 days a week but drinking does not cause a problem in the workplace. However, he will go out after work Wednesday or Thursday through Sunday and binges. He doesn't handle tough situations well and will usually have a few drinks before dealing with them.
Lately, he’s made comments, both sober and drunk, that point to the fact that he wants to find other things to do besides drink. I'm not looking to stop him from drinking, but I would like to help him with "other things to do."
How do I approach his drinking problem? I don't want to offend him, as I value his friendship and want to be there for him, but I'm worried about insulting him. Should I talk to our friends at work or his girlfriend? I also think I may be enabling him because I often drink with him – however, we also have a relationship that doesn’t involve drinking. Please tell me what to do?
A
Right now your friend is functioning, but if he doesn't put his drinking in check, he’ll be developing a higher tolerance causing serious physical and emotional problems. Right now, although he’s drinking too much, he may not have developed a dependency.
The life that he knows is based on drink, so although he’s aware that it's not healthy, he's simply not going to give it up because others tell him to.
You’re right to be cautious. Drinking is a sensitive issue and the confrontation will only make him angry. He believes that although he drinks too much, he's functional at work -- and he believes that alcoholics are dysfunctional. This thinking keeps him in denial and prevents him from addressing his problem.
Since he has commented that he wants to find 'other things to do' you can print this self-test and give it to him.
This test is strictly to open his eyes and break denial. Tell him that since he told you that he'd like to do other things after work and not only drink, you thought he might be interested in it. Once you give him the test say, no more. He has to take the lead.
Should he decide on doing nothing about drinking, his girlfriend would have the most influence. The other friends can pressure him after that. The more people who are on his case the better. Eventually, he may realize that if everyone says there’s a problem, they may not all be wrong.
Bev
Have a question? Just ask and post. Your questions also help others and you can also comment on their posts as well. What’s New On The Site
Have a question? You can now ask me a question and have others benefit as well – and even comment on the postings (and of course you can remain anonymous) It's easy. Just type and post
You will also notice words that are underlined in green. These are ad links, based on the underlined word. They can be helpful if you're looking for something in particular, if not, simply ignore them.
Next Month
If you smoke weed and you function well, why stop? The topic July Newsletter: Why Quit Weed?
If you or someone you know needs help, you can get it on the web or by phone.
For all impulse control behaviors ex. compulsive eating, sex, computer addiction etc. Try a free 30 minute session Here's how.
If you know someone who would appreciate this newsletter, please do both of us a favor and pass it on.
If a friend forwarded this newsletter to you and you like what you read, please subscribe
Enter Your E-mail Address
Enter Your First Name (optional)
Then
Don't worry -- your e-mail address is totally secure.
I promise to use it only to send you Powerful Living.
iphone casino
This site provides information only. It is not intended to replace face-to face therapy with medical or psychological professionals.
Please click and read Terms of Use.
The use of this site constitutes the understanding and acceptance of Terms of Use.
©Untwist-your-thinking.com 2007-2012. All Rights Reserved.
SBI!