Grapefruit Juice And Medications and Drugs
Home
Privacy Policy
Desclaimer
Contact Me
MENU
About Home
Medicine
Vitamin
Pills
Diseases
Cancer
Pharmacy
PETS
Menu
Online Pharmacy Checker medicine remedies Grapefruit Juice And Medications and Drugs
Grapefruit Juice And Medications and Drugs
medicine remedies
Grapefruit juice and medications - If You are a fan of heavy fruit or orange juice, but on the other hand are undergoing long-term treatment and should be taking some kind of medicines, you should be careful. Why?
Because the fruit is rich in vitamin C can affect and disrupt the work of medicine. Katherne Zeratsky, a nutritionist from the Mayo Clinic say, orange juice or grapefruit products can interfere with several types of certain medications.
Zeratsky said, although the interaction caused quite mild, but in some cases this could have serious consequences and cause health problems. He also appealed to everyone to talk to your doctor or pharmacist before eating grapefruit (citrus) or product other citrus fruits if you are taking different types of drugs.
If possible, it would be better if You don't consume grapefruit at all. Even though You are taking the drug and grapefruit products in different time interaction will still be there. Zeratsky revealed that there are certain chemicals contained in citrus fruits that can interfere with the metabolism of various types of drugs in Your digestive system. This condition can harm Your treatment and cause serious side effects.
Read more : Grapefruit Juice And Medications and Drugs
In addition to citrus there is still more food that can trigger drug interactions. Here are some examples of prescription medications that can trigger serious interactions if consumed in the central citrus products. For more details, You can consult to the doctor or pharmacist to see if Your medications are also have interaction with what is that often Your consumption :
Drugs anti anxiety: Buspirone
anti-arrhythmia: Amiodarone (Cordarone)
Antidepressants: Sertraline (Zoloft)
Antihistamine Fexofenadine: (Allegra)
Anti-retrovirals: Saquinavir (Invirase), indinavir (Crixivan)
anti-seizure Medications: Carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Tegretol)
Calcium channel blockers (drugs for hypertension) : Nifedipine (Procardia), Nimodipine (Nimotop), Nisoldipine (Sular)
Immunosuppressant Cyclosporine: (Neoral, Sandimmune), Tacrolimus (Prograf), Sirolimus (Rapamune)
Statins (cholesterol lowering drugs): Simvastatin (Zocor), Lovastatin (Mevacor), Atorvastatin (Lipitor)
Post By : Online Pharmacy Checker
Share this
Twitter
Facebook
Google
Tumblr
Pinterest
Popular Post
What Do Breast Cancer Lumps Feel Like ?
What do breast cancer lumps feel like , One of the common characteristics breast cancer is the appearance of a breast lump. However, not al...
Identify pregnant symptoms signs and 18 pregnancy stages week by week
Nausea and vomiting as well as late coming month is pregnant symptoms the most common pregnant signs symptoms. Usually these signs have alr...
Know signs symptoms of cancer of the lymph nodes swollen before too late
Cancer of the lymph nodes swollen or the so-called malignant lymphoma will cause the main complaints that the bumps that do not ache, tend ...
10 Benefits of binahong leaves to treat a variety of chronic diseases !
Binahong is a herb plant that has been used since long by the people of Japan and Korea as herbal healer of all kinds of diseases. These vi...
What is GERD symptoms, causes and treatment ?
What is GERD symptoms. causes and treatment ? Have You ever felt the body in conditions of very tired to make it hard for You to day? It m...
Copyright © Online Pharmacy Checker
Online Pharmacy Checker™