Lumixyl Brightens Skin Without Harmful Toxic Side Effects - AHB
DoctorsLocate A Doctor ProceduresResearch A Procedure News & TrendsLatest Aesthetic News
Home
Articles
Medical Spa
Locate providers:
Lumixyl Brightens Skin Without Harmful Toxic Side Effects
Hydroquinone has fallen out of favor and is now banned in Europe because of its cytotoxic effects. Luckily, consumers can now turn to Lumixyl, a safe and effective alternative.
Skin discoloration is a common factor in aging. Age spots, brown spots and sun damage all cause the skin to lose it's original smooth coloring and add years to your face. The traditional treatment is hydroquinone, which has fallen out of favor due to concerns about toxicity. Now a new treatment is available called Lumixyl which brightens the skin without the use of hydroquinone.
At the recent annual meeting of the American Academy of Dermatology, Keith Veseleny, Editor of American Health & Beauty, spoke to Dr. Ashish Bhatia, a board certified dermatologist in Chicago, IL at The Dermatology Institute of Naperville. "Lumixyl is one of the newest compounds out there that is used for skin lightening. Traditionally we have hydroquinone which is used for this purpose, but now we have something else. It's really an exciting product," says Dr. Bhatia. "It's exciting because it's a natural peptide that's used and it doesn't have any cytotoxic properties, and it's shown to be quite effective in helping with skin pigmentation." Dr. Bhatia advises, "Hydroquinone is a great compound. It's been used worldwide, but there has been some cytotoxicity associated with hydroquinone and in fact, it's actually been banned in Europe. So we need a new product that we can use to help with pigmentation."
"[Lumixyl] can be used for a variety of pigmentation issues; melasma, post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation or even superficial pigmentation from other causes. We use it on a variety of our patients, pretty much everywhere we used to use hydroquinone." Dr. Bhatia goes on to point out that it is useful for sunspots or agespots, but there are certain conditions which Lumixyl will not help with. "You cannot use it for seborrheac keratosis or any other lesions you couldn't fade normally with hydroquinone."
One key advantage of Lumixyl is that it's useful for all skin types. "It's safe to use on all skin types. As a matter of fact, we use it on our dark skinned patients and our lighter skinned patients that have pigmentary issues. The reason is, it's not very irritating at all.... Sometimes it's used with glycolic acids and other compounds that help turn over the skin a little more frequently and often, irritation is due to those other compounds." Dr. Bhatia says other procedures such as microdermabrasion and silk peels can be used with Lumixyl to turn the skin over faster for a quicker result.
"This is a perfect compliment to many other cosmetic procedures we do in the office all the time. Usually, the customers we have that want this type of system are looking to improve their skin tone, that's the number one reason they come in, but they also have a lot of other complaints, and so we can actually tag this along with many other procedures we do such as Botox, fillers and even {!laser procedures," | fractional resurfacing} says Dr. Bhatia.
Actual before and after results using three SilkPeel treatments with Lumixyl Pro-Infusion
and twice daily Lumixyl Creme application
Patients can use this for spot treatments but it is recommended for use as part of a daily regimen. It can be used not only on the face, but on the hands or neck as well. A one ounce pump of Lumixyl is available from your physician for about $120, which typically lasts about 6 weeks. There is a package available which includes a cleanser, moisturizing sunblock, a glycolic and the Lumixyl which is around $270 and also lasts about 6 weeks.
Lumixyl products are made exclusively for dermatologists, plastic surgeons and skin oriented aesthetic physicians. The products are co-marketed in the United States by Basis Medical Technologies and Envy Medical.
Dr. Ashish Bhatia
Dr. Bhatia is an accomplished dermatologist and Assistant Professor of Clinical Dermatology at Northwestern University, Feinberg School of Medicine. His memberships include the American Academy of Dermatology, American Society for Dermatologic Surgery, the American Society for Laser Medicine and Surgery, the American College of Mohs Surgery, and the American Medical Association. He is affiliated with Central DuPage and Edward Hospitals and has published extensively in medical journals and textbooks.
Related Topics: LumixylHydroquinoneDr. Ashish BhatiaKeith VeselenyAADChemical PeelGlycolic PeelFacial FillersBOTOXFractional Resurfacing
Locate Providers, Read Reviews, See Photos
Chemical Peel | Facial Fillers | BOTOX | Fractional Resurfacing
Related Articles on Medical Spa
Do you suffer from Mini-Lashes?
Necessary Technologies for Opening a Medical Spa
Discusses Muffin Tops, Crows Feet and Sun Spots
New Scientific Powered Glycolic Lunch-Time Peel
Medspa in The Woodlands Texas Recipient of Multiple Awards
Turning Back the Hands of Time without Surgery
Online Assistance
First Name:* Last Name* Email:* Zip or Postal Code: Cell Phone: Which Procedure Are You Looking For?
Contact Us
Connect with us:
© 2004-2019 American Health And Beauty, LLC
Add Your Practice! Advertise About Us Research A Procedure Locate A Doctor Latest Aesthetic News Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy
*Individual results are not guaranteed and vary from person to person.
Disclaimer: For general educational purposes only. Information contained in this Web site is general in nature, and should not be relied on for medical treatment. If you need advice or services, please contact the doctor directly. All photos are of models for decorative purposes unless they specifically mention they are actual before & after photographs.