Our Blog - Middleton WI | Hartjes Dental Associates
Creating Beautiful Smiles for a Lifetime
Patient Login
Home
About Us
Meet Dr. Brad Hartjes
Meet Dr. Joel Hartjes
Meet the Team
What Sets Us Apart
Office Tour
Our Blog
For New Patients
Office Visits
Financial Information
Testimonials
Patient Forms
General Dentistry
Preventive Care
Teeth for Life
Pediatric Dentistry
Gum Disease
Fillings
Root Canals
Digital X-rays
Laser Dentistry
Emergency Dental Care
Oral Cancer Screening
Snoring Prevention
Common Procedures
Improve Your Smile
Bonding
Crowns
Implants
Periodontal FAQs
Scaling and Root Planing
Cracked Teeth
Cosmetic Dentistry
Teeth Whitening
Veneers
Invisalign®
Invisalign® Info
Invisalign Teen® Info
Invisalign® Costs
Invisalign® FAQs
Invisalign® Testimonials
Invisalign® Videos
Invisalign® Before & After
Contact Us
Hartjes Dental Associates
Appointment Request
Post-Appointment Survey
Refer a Friend
(608) 836-5600
1001 N. Gammon Road, Suite 2, Middleton, WI 53562
Brad A Hartjes DDS
Joel M Hartjes DDS
Our Blog
Dental Veneers
April 18th, 2019
Are you looking to improve the appearance of your front teeth? Dental veneers are widely used to improve the appearance of front teeth and are a much more conservative option than a full dental crown. Veneers can be used to improve the appearance of staining, large gaps, large fillings, chipped teeth, or overall shape. Veneers are a thin covering over the front and biting end of the tooth used to restore the beauty of a smile. Over the years we have helped many patients who opted for veneers and now have the confidence to smile again.
Dental veneers are made in a lab from long-lasting porcelain materials. The shade can be chosen to a desirable color to whiten the appearance of your smile. Dental veneers are usually placed on the anterior, or front teeth, where the chewing forces are not as hard as the back teeth. The process of placing veneers is relatively easy requiring only two dental appointments. In some cases, only one appointment is needed. It depends on the fabrication process.
The first appointment is to “prep” the teeth and take an impression to be sent to a lab to fabricate the veneers. Veneers are fairly conservative in the preparation as it requires a small amount of space to be created on the face (front), bottom, and sides of each tooth to allow space for the veneer to be placed and look natural. You will leave the office with temporary veneers for the next week or two while the permanent veneers are being made.
The second appointment is to place the veneers and make minor adjustments if needed. What a difference it makes in the appearance of the teeth! If you’re interested in learning more, give Dr. Brad Hartjes and Dr. Joel Hartjes a call today!
Tags:
Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments
Caring for Your Invisalign® Aligners
April 11th, 2019
You’ve selected the Invisalign system because of the many benefits Invisalign offers: comfort, convenience, appearance, and even potentially shorter treatment time! And to add to the good news, caring for your Invisalign aligners is easy and uncomplicated. Follow these simple tips to keep your aligners in the best possible shape as you move through the stages of your treatment.
Stay Clean
Always brush and floss your teeth before using your aligners so that bacteria and food particles will not have a chance to collect around your teeth while you wear them.
When you brush your teeth, be sure to brush your aligners with a separate soft toothbrush and lukewarm water as well.
Rinse your aligners whenever you remove them during the day.
Soak your aligners as recommended. Use the Invisalign Cleaning System or ask our Middleton, WI team for other suggestions to keep your aligners free from odor and bacteria.
Stay Clear
One of the reasons you chose Invisalign is for an almost invisible appearance. Why take a chance on discoloration or scratches that will make the appliance more noticeable? Here are some common mistakes that can affect the color of your aligners:
If your aligner has white spots, that might mean plaque build-up. Always rinse your aligner after you remove it and clean it thoroughly night and morning.
Brushing with anything other than a soft brush and brushing too hard can cause scratches in the material which might be noticeable. A gentle touch will work to clean and protect your aligners.
Eating with Invisalign aligners can cause staining. More important, it can cause the retention of food particles in the appliance, which can lead to dental problems. Finally, aligners are not meant for chewing—they might be damaged or lose their ideal shape even with soft foods. If you are going to be eating or drinking, take your aligners out, give them a rinse, and brush before you replace them. Or stick with water! Water will have no ill effects on teeth or aligners.
Only soak aligners in an appropriate solution. Harsh chemicals, colored mouthwashes, and even some toothpastes can dim or discolor the clear plastic.
Talk to Dr. Brad Hartjes and Dr. Joel Hartjes about the best products to use and the best methods for taking care of your aligners. After all, making the process of improving your smile as easy and effective as possible is yet another benefit of choosing Invisalign!
Tags:
Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments
Dental X-Rays: Are They Safe?
April 4th, 2019
X-rays have been a function of dental healthcare for a long time. That in and of itself should be good news, because it means we've had plenty of time to improve them. While there is always some risk in exposure to radiation, dental X-ray exposure has decreased significantly due to all the advances in technology. So there’s risk, but X-rays are quite safe.
Think of X-rays as you would about a car. Automobiles these days have all kinds of technology to make them as safe as possible. There's still a chance that you’ll suffer an accident. Would you stop using a car because of that risk? When it comes to dental X-rays, Dr. Brad Hartjes and Dr. Joel Hartjes and our team believe the positives clearly outweigh the negatives.
X-rays can be done digitally or with film. For film, X-rays require different exposures at different speeds to produce the image. Digital X-rays have software that automatically adjusts the exposure and produces the X-ray in a digital file. Since they substantially reduce your exposure to radiation, digital X-rays are the current standard in dental offices.
In addition to digital X-rays, lead aprons are an essential piece of X-ray safety. They help protect internal organs from X-rays by acting as a shield. They usually come with a thyroid collar as well, since that is one of the most vulnerable areas to X-rays in the body. Lead aprons can absorb up to 95% of any scatter rays that result from an X-ray. Not bad, right?
Although dental X-rays involve some radiation exposure (not all of it can be eliminated), so does everyday life. Getting too much sun, for example, can be dangerous. The truth is, we accumulate radiation in our bodies over a lifetime, so it’s worthwhile to be aware and avoid as much unnecessary exposure as possible. When it comes to your dental health, though, getting an X-ray — especially when your doctor says you need it — offers more benefits than risks.
Ask us about the type of dental X-rays we use during your next visit to our Middleton, WI office!
Tags:
Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments
Chewing Gum: Fact and Fiction
March 28th, 2019
Remember all the things your parents would tell you when you were growing up to scare you away from doing something? Like how lying might make your nose grow, misbehaving meant you wouldn’t get money from the tooth fairy, and swallowed chewing gum would build up in your stomach and stay there for years?
Maybe that last one stayed with you well beyond your teens, and occurred to you every time you accidentally (or purposely) swallowed a piece of gum. We don’t blame you. It’s a scary thought.
But is it true?
We hate to take the fun out of parental discipline, but swallowing a piece of chewing gum is pretty much like swallowing any other piece of food. It will move right through your digestive system with no danger of getting stuck for months, let alone seven years.
This doesn’t mean you should start swallowing all your gum from now on, but if it happens accidentally now and then, there’s no need to panic.
Another common gum myth is that sugar-free gum can help you lose weight. Although it is preferable to choose sugar-free gum over the extra-sweet variety, no studies have show that sugar-free gum will help you lose weight.
If you pop a piece of gum in your mouth after dinner to avoid dessert, it could help you avoid eating a few extra calories every day. But the consumption of sugar-free gum without any other effort will not help you shed pounds.
If you really enjoy chewing gum, we strongly encourage you to select sugarless gum, because it lowers your risk for cavities. Many brands of sugarless gum contain xylitol, a natural sweetener that can, in fact, help fight bacteria that cause cavities and rinse away plaque.
So if you can’t kick the gum habit altogether, sugar-free is definitely the way to go!
If you have any questions about chewing gum, feel free to contact Dr. Brad Hartjes and Dr. Joel Hartjes at our Middleton, WI office.
Tags:
Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments
Older Entries
Search blog:
Search
Hartjes Dental Associates
1001 N. Gammon Road, Suite 2
Middleton, WI 53562
(608) 836-5600
Patient Login
Home
About Us
For New Patients
General Dentistry
Improve Your Smile
Invisalign®
Contact Us
Site Map
Website Powered by Sesame 24-7™