German review on dangers of WiFi | S.A.F.E. Helps You
Skip to content
S.A.F.E. Helps You
Information and service projects concerning EMFs, GMO and health
Menu
Home
SAFE Officers
Facts about the “unseen” allergies.
EMF Protectors
Projects
Fluoride and Health
Personal Stories
Donate
Advocacy
Calendar
Research articles and videos
HomeGerman review on dangers of WiFi
German review on dangers of WiFi
May 11, 2018 May 11, 2018 blogmeister Uncategorizedelectromagnetic sensitivity, electronics and health symptoms, EMFs and health, internet in schools, kid's and EMF exposure, wi-fi and health symptomsbiomarkers and EMF exposure
From: The English translation of the review “Biological and pathological effects of 2.45 GHz radiation on cells, fertility, brain, and behavior” by Isabel Wilke, published as a supplement in the German journal ‘umwelt-medizin-gesellschaft 1/2018’. It is the largest systematic review on WiFi up to now. It documents more than 100 studies confirming harmful effects of the 2.45 GHz carrier frequency and its pulsed WiFi variant. The review was commissioned by diagnose:funk. This review is particularly explosive, as WiFi is to be installed everywhere, including for “digital education” in kindergartens and schools. The work of I. Wilke confirms the results of the review of Naziroglu/Akman, which was published in the Springer Reference in the year 2014 and the new Review of M. Pall (2018).
In the summary of the review by I. Wilke it says: “Current exposure limits and SAR values do not protect from health risks associated with Wi-Fi radiation. The adverse effects on learning, attention, and behavior serve as a basis for educational institutions of all age groups to forgo the use of Wi-Fi applications. Due to cytotoxic effects, Wi-Fi technologies are not suitable for hospitals and telemedicine. Wi-Fi technologies should not be used in bedrooms, work spaces, common lounges, hospital rooms, lecture halls, classrooms, and public transport. The possible risks associated with Wi-Fi radiation could be avoided by testing alternative technologies at other frequency bands like optical VLC/Li-Fi technologies (visible light communication). When Wi-Fi cannot be avoided as a transition solution, the ALARA principle must be applied: no continuous transmission, instead Wi-Fi networks that can be turned off and feature dynamic power management.”
Due to the study situation, the Cypriot and Austrian medical associations are calling for WLAN in a joint appeal: “Decision makers especially in Education and the Health Sector need to be aware of risks and safe alternatives of the Technology, must consider adequately Health concerns, children’s vulnerability and support safe environment in schools, day-care and paediatric units. They must promote age related rational application of digital technology and not allow at schools, particular at preschool, kindergarten and elementary schools wireless networks and opt for wired connections.”
Advertisements
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
More
LinkedIn
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Post navigation
← Smart Meters Banned in NM cities
MA state house to view Generation Zapped →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Information Sites
AARP Forum Thread on Fluoride in Drinking Water
Dangers of Wi-Fi exposure
Electromagnetic Radiation: A Modern Health Hazard? – Dr Erica Mallery-Blythe – June 2016
EMF Coping Site EI Wellspring
EMF free travel, real estate, etc website
Fluoride Action Network
Halt MA Smart Meters
Link of RF near the pregnant woman and children's autism
Metabolic and Genetic Screening of Electromagnetic Hypersensitive Subjects as a Feasible Tool for Diagnostics and Intervention
Smartphones wrecking the planet
Swedish RF measurement of school WiFi
Too Much Screen Time Damages Brain
Understand EMFs
Video on EMF measurments in home
Video on when to give kids a smartphone.
Wireless effects on wildlife
SAFE Blogs
GMO Updates
No MA Smart Meters
Personal Stories and Current Posts
Dr. Martin Pall an predictions of EMFs destroying civilization
International Actions To Halt And Delay 5G
California legal opinion puts 5G siting in hands of towns
Evidence on Risks to Children from Wifi and Smartphones
Bill to restrict lawsuits from 5G health issues
Stop 5G
Boston Globe article warns cell phone health hazards Jan 2019
Food additive now hidden
Connectivity is the next tobacco or asbestos.
French gov’t wants to ban smart phones in middle school
Was McCain’s tumor related to cell phone?
MAY 29, 2018 — EHS CITIZENS PLEASE PARTICIPATE AND TAKE ACTION!!!
MA state house to view Generation Zapped
German review on dangers of WiFi
Smart Meters Banned in NM cities
Pesticides and leaky gut contribute to EHS?
The Effects of EMFs video
How to avoid auto EMFs
Can your car make you sick?
France banning mobile phones from schools
Follow S.A.F.E. Helps You on WordPress.com
Advertisements
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: