How Low Can You Go?! – The Diet Doc Des Moines
Skip to content
The Diet Doc Des Moines
Stay Fit. Stay Healthy.
Menu
Home
Blog
About
How Low Can You Go?!
November 9, 2014 November 9, 2014
If you didn’t guess from the picture…I want to talk to you about squats for a minute. Squats are one of the most functional exercises we can do in the gym that reaps great benefits! It’s a move that a lot of people don’t like and it makes sense it requires your entire body to work which is exhausting at times, aside from that let me give you some benefits to doing squats:
Increase the release of hormones. What this means when doing squats your body produces the highest amount of growth hormone which reduces the effects of aging and in men increased testosterone which aids in building muscle. The reason for this is because a squat requires every muscle in the body to move the weight properly.
Increase in core strength. When doing squats the body has to work overtime to prevent injury by helping you maintain a good posture and stabilizing you. This forces your abs and hip complex to become stronger. Did I mention that it helps your abs?!
Improve flexibility. When doing deep squat(ass to the grass) you are creating more flexibility in your hip complex which in return helps creates less back pain.
PS- Studies have shown that deep squats are not bad for your knees. If anything they actually help create more elasticity. When studying squats above parallel, parallel, and below parallel there is no difference shown in the stress put on the knees.
Reduce injury risk. Squats help build up your glutes, hamstrings, and quads which are your bodies primary stabilizers.
Increase lower body strength. Let’s not forget the obvious reason here for squats…becoming stronger in your lower body.
How often are you squatting?
Advertisements
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
More
Tumblr
Pinterest
Reddit
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Posted in Muscle Building, Strength TrainingTagged booty, core, fat loss, fitness, glutes, health, healthy, muscle, muscle building, squats, strength
Post navigation
Protein is Protein Part 1
Lift That Booty!
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Categories
Fat loss
Fitness
Health
Muscle Building
Product Knowledge
Quick Workouts
Strength Training
Weight loss
The Diet Doc Des Moines
Stay Fit. Stay Healthy.
WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: