Do Collagen Peptides benefit your skin, nails, and joints? Are there any clinical studies to back up these claims? – Natural Force Support Desk
Back to Main Site
Submit a request Sign in
Natural Force Support Desk
Product FAQs
Collagen Peptides
Do Collagen Peptides benefit your skin, nails, and joints? Are there any clinical studies to back up these claims?
Follow
Tony Federico
May 31, 2017 16:20
Interested in Collagen Peptides but worried that the benefits sound too good to be true? 😬🤞
Good news! Collagen Peptides really do benefit your skin, nails, and joints, but don't just take our word for it!
Collagen Peptides and Skin Health
In two placebo-controlled clinical trials designed to assess the effects of daily oral collagen peptides supplementation, researchers found a significant increase in skin hydration after 8 weeks of intake. Using high-resolution ultrasound and skin biopsies, they were able to determine that skin collagen density was also significantly increased, collagen fragmentation (damage) was decreased and production of glycosaminoglycans (such as hyaluronic acid) was also increased. These findings led the researchers to conclude that, "The oral supplementation with collagen peptides is efficacious to improve hallmarks of skin aging."
A separate double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 69 women aged 35-55 years received either 2.5g collagen hydrolysate (hydrolyzed collagen peptides), 5g collagen hydrolysate, or a placebo. After four weeks, both of the collagen hydrolysate groups showed a statistically significant improvement in skin elasticity, improvements in skin moisture, and none reported side effects.
A third study looked at collagen peptides ability to combat cellulite specifically by giving 2.5g bioactive collagen peptides to 105 women aged 24-50 years for a 6 month period. At the end of the study period, statistically significant improvements thigh cellulite in normal-weight participants and improvement (but not to a statistically significant degree) in thigh cellulite in overweight participants. Overall, the researchers concluded that long term, oral intake of bioactive collagen peptides "leads to an improvement of cellulite and has a positive impact on skin health."
References:
1) The effect of oral collagen peptide supplementation on skin moisture and the dermal collagen network: evidence from an ex vivo model and randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials
2) Oral supplementation of specific collagen peptides has beneficial effects on human skin physiology: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
3) Dietary Supplementation with Specific Collagen Peptides Has a Body Mass Index-Dependent Beneficial Effect on Cellulite Morphology
Collagen Peptides and Nail Health
In a study of 25 participants who received 2.5g of bioactive collagen peptides once a day for 24 weeks, researchers found that participants experience a 42% decrease in broken nail frequency and a 12% increase in nail growth. They also found that 64% of participants saw a clinical improvement in brittle nails and 88% of participants continued to experience improvements in nail health 4 weeks post-treatment. These results led to the conclusion that "Daily ingestion of (bioactive collagen peptides) increased nail growth and improved brittle nails in conjunction with a notable decrease in the frequency of broken nails."
References:
1) Oral supplementation with specific bioactive collagen peptides improves nail growth and reduces symptoms of brittle nails.
Collagen Peptides and Joint Health
A double-blind, placebo-controlled, and randomized trial was conducted to determine if collagen peptides could help patients with diagnosed knee osteo-arthritis. After 13 weeks of treatment with either bovine bone collagen peptides, pork skin collagen peptides, or a placebo, the patients were assessed in order to see if they experienced any changes in joint range of motion and overall quality of life. The researchers found that both collagen groups had significant improvements in pain, stiffness, and functional movement while the placebo group did not see any such changes. This led to the conclusion that "collagen peptides are potential therapeutic agents as nutritional supplements for the management of osteoarthritis and maintenance of joint health."
In a study focussing on athletes, researchers randomly assigned two groups of subjects (147 total) to receive either 10g of collagen peptides or xanthan gum (placebo). The goal was to investigate the effect of oral collagen intake on activity-related joint pain in athletes who had no evidence of pre-existing joint disease. After 24 weeks of treatment, the data was analyzed and it was found that the collagen group had statistically significant improvement in joint pain at rest, while walking, lifting weights, running, and changing direction. Based on these results, the researchers suggested that "athletes consuming collagen hydrolysate can reduce parameters (such as pain) that have a negative impact on athletic performance."
References:
1) A double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, clinical study on the effectiveness of collagen peptide on osteoarthritis.
2) 24-Week study on the use of collagen hydrolysate as a dietary supplement in athletes with activity-related joint pain.
Please note: We are not doctors, and cannot recommend whether you should or should not take any product. The information shared on this page is for informational purposes only and we advise consulting with your physician before taking any nutritional or dietary supplement.
Articles in this section
Did the formulation of Collagen Peptides change when the packaging was updated?
Do Collagen Peptides require refrigeration after opening?
Are Collagen Peptides really odorless and tasteless?
Do Collagen Peptides benefit your skin, nails, and joints? Are there any clinical studies to back up these claims?
Can Collagen Peptides be used to treat specific health conditions?
What source materials are used to make Collagen Peptides and is it a sustainable product?
How are Collagen Peptides processed?
What is the difference between Collagen Peptides and collagen hydrolysate?
Can you replace other protein or amino acid supplements with Collagen Peptides?
Do you need to take vitamin C with Collagen Peptides?
See more
Was this article helpful?
0 out of 0 found this helpful
Comments
0 comments
Article is closed for comments.
Have more questions?
Submit a Request
Share it, if you like it.
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
*These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
Natural Force is a registered trademark of Natural Force Benefit Co. in the United States and other countries.
Knowledge
Product FAQs
Buying From Us
Links
Back to Main Site
Authorized Retailers
Wholesale Portal
Contact
Submit a Request
+1 (844) 927-3733
Copyright © 2009 Natural Force.