Amazing Story: a Man uses Baking Soda to Beat Stage 4 Cancer. | Great Life and more…
Compartir en Facebook
Amazing Story: a Man uses Baking Soda to Beat Stage 4 Cancer.
Like us
Amazing Story: a Man uses Baking Soda to Beat Stage 4 Cancer.
3 years
8805 Views
Share on Facebook
Comparte en Facebook
Comparte en Twitter
This is a real life story. It’s a remarkable story about a man, Vernon Johnston, who successfully “destroyed” stage IV cancer with just using one simple ingredient – baking soda. His name is Vernon Johnston, and he has been fighting with stage IV prostate cancer. We all know the conventional treatments of the modern medicine and how they treat cancer patients. Vernon’s standard treatment was the conventional chemotherapy sessions, and his last hope was that the chemo drugs will destroy only cancer cells and that it won’t kill the healthy cells which have remained.
Well, we all know that the conventional chemotherapy treatment is an aggressive anti-cancer method. Chemotherapy treatment often leaves the patients drained of energy, drained of resources and with weakened immune system, for which we can say that is almost next to nothing. He’s cancer was at in advanced stage (IV) and even the conventional chemotherapy sessions won’t guarantee that he can be cured. So, he had no other options and he started to fight the disease on his own way. Vernon took his brother’s advice and he decided to raise his body’s pH levels, which was supposed to prevent the spread of cancer in his body. In order to do that, Vernon needed cesium chloride.
Well, this type of therapy was another, different, cancer treatment and some doctors recommend this treatment to their cancer patients. Well, compared to the conventional chemotherapy, cesium therapy should provide better results. So, being aware of this, he started to use cesium alternative ways to raise his body’s pH levels.
After doing some research, Vernon came across to baking soda
Yes, you got that right. We are talking about the old-fashioned and famous household – baking soda. He mixed baking soda with some maple syrup and started to use this homemade treatment on daily basis. Well, I may seem weird and unlikely to fight cancer with baking soda and other common household ingredients, but he’s anti-cancer fighting progress is documented on his blog and it’s available for everyone to see.
BAKING SODA – how can it help you fight against cancer?
You may know this, but let me say it one more time – cancer cells survive and grow in acidic environment. Many experts have confirmed that if you are alkalizing the tumor environment, then you can starve the cancer cells and inhibit their growth. So, getting the sodium bicarbonate closer to the tumor cells by intravenous injection is superior to oral administration. But, on the other hand we can also say that oral medications are more available, way cheaper and safer than injections.
We really hope you enjoyed this post and please share it with your friends and family. Thanks.
Source: http://www.healthylifetricks.com/
Comparte en Facebook
Comparte en Twitter
Comments
comments
loading...
Share on Facebook
Related
Are You Wondering What These Little Buttons on Jeans Pockets Are? You Will Be Surprised
How to Make Garlic Ear Oil to Treat an Ear Infection
HOW TO USE HIMALAYAN SALT LAMPS FOR BETTER SLEEP AND IMPROVE YOUR MOOD
Scientist Explains What Will Happen If You Wrap Your Feet With Aluminum Foil!
The Secret Things, No One Ever Tells You About Menopause!
Leek Remedy to Remove Toxins and Lose Weight
DO NOT IGNORE THEM: These are the most common warning that you MAY be infected by HIV!
Never Buy Cough Syrup Again: Simple Pineapple Mixture is 5x More Effective And Fights Inflammation!
Lose Up To 15 kg In 21 Days – A Drink That Cleanse Toxins From The Body
Comments
Man Has 420 Kidney Stones Removed In One Operation – The Doctor Says His Love Of TofuIs The Reason To Blame
Most Of All Tuna Caught Is Covered With RADIATION. Here Are The Specific Kinds You Need To Avoid
DON’T EVER USE APPLE CIDER VINEGAR IF YOU’RE ON ANY OF THE FOLLOWING MEDICATIONS
10 Signs and Symptoms that You Have an Underactive Thyroid
Stop Drinking Bottled Water
No Dermatologist Will Tell You This About The Gray Hair And How To Get Rid Of It!
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR CHANNEL NOW!
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR CHANNEL NOW!
We recommend these articles
loading...
Search for:
Recent Posts
7 Home Remedies to Help You Lose Belly Fat
What your nails say about your health
Don’t suffer through the pain of shingles. Try one of these 6+ home remedies
You can do so much more with coffee other than drink it. Here are 6 other things to do with this common beverage
Top 10 Home Remedies To Lose Belly Weight Fat Without Exercise
Recent Comments
Archives
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
November 2017
September 2017
August 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
Categories
Belleza
Consejos
Curiosidades
Salud
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Great Life and More
©Great Life and more… | Developed in Wordpress by Temaslab
loading...
Inline
"
Inline
"