FACT CHECK: Cell Phones in Bras Cause Breast Cancer?
Support Snopes
Submit a Topic
What's New
Hot 50
Fact Checks
News
Videos
Archive
About Us
Randomizer
Support Us
Fact Check
Medical
Cell Phones in Bras Cause Breast Cancer?
Rumor: A woman contracted breast cancer from carrying a cell phone in her bra.
David Mikkelson
Misinformation is a real threat.Snopes.com needs your help.
Learn How
Stay Informed
The Daily Debunker brings you the top stories on Snopes.com.
Accept our Terms & Privacy Policy
Subscribe
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
Claim: A woman contracted breast cancer from carrying a cell phone in her bra.
UNPROVEN
Example: [Collected via e-mail, May 2013]
Can you get breast cancer by keeping your cell phone in your bra? There is a video of a news footage on a woman who thinks she
got breast cancer from keeping her cell phone in her bra.
Origins: The video linked above was a news report from York, Pennsylvania, television station WGAL about Tiffany Franz, a Strasburg resident who was diagnosed with breast cancer when she was just 21 years old.
Tiffany eventually underwent a mastectomy to remove her left breast, and given her youth, her lack of genetic predispositions or risk
factors for breast cancer, and the location of her tumors (roughly the area in which her cell phone was placed in contact with her breast), Tiffany and her family (and some doctors) have suggested that her carrying a cell phone in her bra, where it was pressed against the bare skin of her chest for six years, was the cause of her developing breast cancer at such an early age.
However, although some women who typically tote cell phones in their bras have developed breast cancer, there is as yet no hard evidence proving or disproving the notion that the connection between the two is anything more than coincidence. Some doctors recommend that women not carry cell phones in brassieres, and cell phone manuals usually advise users to carry their phones some minimum distance (a half-inch or so) away from their bodies and avoid direct contact with the skin, but those are “better safe than sorry” precautionary measures and not warnings based on empirical evidence demonstrating a connection between cell phones and cancer:
Is there a link between breast cancer and cell phones? Some doctors say they’re seeing evidence of breast cancer that could be connected to where some women keep their mobile phone — in their bras.
Breast surgeon Lisa Bailey said phone-related breast cancer may be common. Saying it may be the heat of the battery of the radio frequency of the radiation that makes keeping a phone directly on the skin risky.
“These young breasts in the early evolution are more sensitive to changes that might lead to cancer,” Bailey said.
Other breast cancer specialist are now speaking out as well. Dr. John West says men who keep their phones in their shirt pockets are also at risk.
The wireless industry, meanwhile, denies any problem, citing a lack of scientific evidence that cellphones cause breast cancer.
Those concerned doctors though say it’s because not enough studies have been completed.
“There’s no evidence, but that’s because we haven’t studied it,” Bailey said.
“Until further data either supports it or disproves it, I would keep cell phones away from the body, in particular the breasts,” adds Dr. June Chen, a Breast Cancer Radiologist.
In the meantime, experts convinced of the link say better safe than sorry.
“It’s as simple as that and it might save a life it might avoid a mastectomy, chemotherapy, it’s easy enough to do, why take a chance?” West said. “If there is a risk and we don’t find out about it for five or ten years from now, we’re going to see a whole cluster of young people with breast cancer.”
In September 2015, the UK press reported on a British woman, 51-year-old Wendy Holt, who similarly claimed that her breast cancer was the result of her carrying a cell phone in her bra for many years:
A mother-of one believes keeping her mobile phone in her bra every day for a decade gave her terminal breast cancer.
Wendy Holt, 51, from Bracknell, Berkshire, fell into a habit of keeping her phone in her bra when she went out so it would be within easy reach.
However she now believes radiation from her phone was to blame for her breast cancer diagnosis in 2012, as she had no family history of the disease.
Despite no longer storing her phone in this way — and getting the all clear of cancer — the disease returned in her lungs and lymph nodes earlier this year.
Her terminal diagnosis means it’s unlikely she will reach her 53rd birthday.
Once again, however, medical experts asserted it was unlikely that the referenced case of breast cancer was caused by cell phones:
Leading oncologist Professor Karol Sikora, of Cancer Partners UK, said it was ‘unlikely’ that mobile phone use — or the way she had stored it — had triggered Ms Holt’s cancer.
He said: ‘There have been thousands of studies into the safety of mobile phones but no link has been established with breast cancer — even in these unusual circumstances.
‘There have been some papers about a certain type of brain tumour, called gliomas, but in this case, it is intrinsically unlikely that contact with the phone was to blame for this lady’s cancer.
‘She would be exposed to a minor, trivial dose of electromagnetic radiation when the phone went off, but that would be it.’
And Carolyn Rogers, Clinical Nurse Specialist at Breast Cancer Care said:
‘It’s not possible to isolate any one factor as a cause of breast cancer, however, at present there is no evidence available to suggest that radio frequency waves from mobile phones can cause breast cancer.
‘The biggest risk factors for developing breast cancer are being female and getting older — 80 per cent diagnosed are over the age of 50.
‘These are factors we cannot control. For some, having a significant family history can increase your risk, however fewer than 10 per cent of all breast cancers are caused by inheriting a faulty breast cancer gene.’
Additional information:
Update: Cell Phone and Breast Cancer (BeAware Foundation)
Last updated: 16 September 2015
Sources:
WTVR-TV [Richmond, VA]. “Doctors: Women Who Store Phone in Bras at Risk for Breast Cancer.”
19 November 2012.
By
David Mikkelson
Filed Under
ASP Article
Disease
Latest Fact Checks View all
Did an Ohio State Rep. Propose Exempting African-American Women From Abortion Restrictions?
19 April 2019 State Rep. Janine Boyd garnered national attention for an amendment she proposed to the state's controversial "fetal heartbeat" law.
Were Razor Blades Found in Gas-Pump Handles in Michigan?
19 April 2019 Hoaxes and reality sometimes overlap.
Did Actor Keanu Reeves Save Dozens of Cats from Euthanasia?
19 April 2019 He may well be one of the most beloved celebrities on the internet.
Did President Trump Say ‘This is the End of My Presidency. I’m F*cked’ After Mueller’s Appointment?
19 April 2019 According to the Mueller Report, U.S. President Donald Trump was less than enthused about the appointment of the special counsel.
Is the Trump Administration Seeking to Monitor Social Media Accounts of Disability Recipients?
19 April 2019 The U.S. Social Security Administration proposed stepped-up evaluation of social media posts when investigating peoples' disability claims.
View all
Misinformation is a real threat.Snopes.com needs your help.
Learn How
Featured Video View all
Did Nostradamus Predict the ‘Descent of Man’ After the Notre Dame Fire?
Read More
Latest Reporting View all
Different Disaster, Same Theme: Hoaxes and Misinformation Spread Online after Notre Dame Fire
16 April 2019 Time after time, a major news event produces a big mess to mop up on social media.
President Trump Tweets Misrepresented Approval Numbers from Fox
11 April 2019 President Trump’s overall unfavorable rating has remained steady at 55 percent since he announced his candidacy in 2015.
Was Mr. Rogers Bisexual?
10 April 2019 Remarks the late children's television show host reportedly made in casual conversation with a friend prompted the posthumous celebration of Mr. Rogers as a 'bisexual icon.'
Conspiracy Theory About Holistic Doctor Deaths Resurfaces After Nipsey Hussle Murder
4 April 2019 The late hip-hop musician and community activist was making a documentary about holistic healer Dr. Sebi.
Indiana Authorities Address Social Media Rumors Surrounding the Death of Taemon Blair
1 April 2019 The 21-year-old from Huntersville, North Carolina, was found hanged in his own truck in Fort Wayne, Indiana, on 14 March.
View all
Navigate
Home
Search
Archive
FAQ
Submit a Topic
Sections
What's New
Hot 50
Fact Checks
News
Randomizer
Company
About Snopes
Support Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Coming SoonNEW
Membership
Store
Discourse
On The Issues
© 1995 - 2019 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
This material may not be reproduced without permission.
Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com
Your search did not yield any results. Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific. Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us. We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
<# } #>
Support Snopes
Submit a Topic
What's New
Hot 50
Fact Checks
News
Videos
Archive
About Us
Randomizer
Close