Trouble Brewing for Doctor Who Linked Autism and Vaccines| Interactive Health
MENUMENU
Topics & Tools
Health Topics
Blog
Acid Reflux
ADHD
Allergies
Alzheimer’s & Dementia
Asthma
Bipolar Disorder
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
COPD
Crohn’s Disease
Depression
Fibromyalgia
Health Insurance Exchanges
Heart Disease
High Cholesterol
HIV
Hypertension
IBS
Insomnia
Menopause
Multiple Sclerosis (MS)
Osteoarthritis
Pregnancy
Psoriasis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Skin Disorders and Care
STDs
Health Tools
Symptom Checker
Body Maps
Clinical Trials
Pill Identifier
Find a Doctor
Health News
Newsletters
Diabete4s
Search for:
Subscribe
×
Sign up for our newsletter
Get health tips, wellness advice, and more
[wysija_form id=”1″]
InterActiveHealth
+-
InterActiveHealth Recent Blogs Trouble Brewing for Doctor Who Linked Autism and Vaccines
Trouble Brewing for Doctor Who Linked Autism and Vaccines
It's only fair to share...
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Dr. Andrew Wakefield and his colleagues were one of the first researchers who suggested a link between Autism and Vaccines. The vaccines involved include: Measles, Mumps, and Rubella.
This research has pushed thousands to march, cry, protest, insult, hate, and much more against vaccines.
Many in the medical community have been concerned with the findings of the research published over 12 years ago. However, countless others have embarrassed and searched for an explanation to Autism.
Recently this doctor was barred from practicing medicine in Great Britain. The primarily reason that he lost his license was that his research, study and journal article were deemed to have been done unethically.
His research was first published in 1998 in the medical journal Lancet. Earlier this year a decision had been made on the merits of this research. In January a ruling against Dr. Wakefield and two other doctors indicated that they had acted “unethically” and showed “callous disregard” for the children of the study.
The investigation looked primarily at the procedure and how the studies were performed and did not dissect the science held within.
Of the original paper, ten author’s renounced its conclusions and later it was retracted by the Lancet.
Dr. Wakefield continues to stand by his research that their is a link between Autism and Vaccines and that he will continue to research the link.
However, numerous studies have been performed since the original groundbreaking article linking Autism and vaccines but there have not been a found connection.
U.S. Federal Court ruled last year and again in March that no link has been found. Thousands of families have laid claim and are seeking compensation.
Other are trying to battle for the effectiveness and especially the safety of vaccines. The number of vaccines in England and the United States dropped significantly after the initial research. Many countries vaccine numbers have not recovered causing significant measles outbreaks in Europe and the United States.
“This verdict is not about (the measles) vaccine,” said Adam Finn, a professor of pediatrics at the University of Bristol Medical School. “We all now know that the vaccine is remarkably safe and enormously effective…we badly need to put this right for the sake of our own children and children worldwide.”
Related Articles:
Link to Autism? Vaccine Court Says “no”.
Is There a Relationship Between Vaccinations and Certain Diseases Such as Autism
VN:F [1.9.22_1171]
please wait...
Rating: 10.0/10 (1 vote cast)
VN:F [1.9.22_1171]
Rating: +2 (from 2 votes)
Trouble Brewing for Doctor Who Linked Autism and Vaccines, 10.0 out of 10 based on 1 rating
Related
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
0 Responses to Trouble Brewing for Doctor Who Linked Autism and Vaccines
Spotlight on: Nutrition / Diet
10 Unhealthy Foods for Children
Nutrition for children is essential for proper growth, health, and Mental and …
What to Eat and Not Eat During Pregnancy
Food is some of the most complicated decisions during Pregnancy not only …
Get Connected
Get connected, help others, ask questions, express yourself.
Health Information
Elbow Injury: Metal Plate Visible
Main Dishes
Decision Point: Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials
NEXT IN THE SERIES
Bring These Questions to Your Next Appointment
The Basics: Learn What to Expect
Tag
Asthma breast breast cancer cancer cdc childbirth depression diabetes Exercise fitness flu H1N1 Health health blog healthcare website Health Care Website Health information Health issues health news health questions health tips health update healthy living heart HIV hypertension iahealth ihealth immune system influenza Interactive Health interactive health tools Interactive medicine liver Lungs medical info medical informatics medical information Medication Nutrition Pregnancy stress stroke swine flu vaccination
Advertising
Would you like to advertise on IAHealth? Please feel free to contact us
Privacy Policy
To learn more about our Privacy Policy, go here.
About Us
IAHealth.net is dedicated to educating.
© Copyright InterActive Health LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Our Mission
Meet Our Team
Community
Advertising Policy