Adventures in Autism: December 2008
Adventures in Autism
News and commentary on the autism epidemic and my beautiful boy who is living with autism.
December 28, 2008
Any parents in Ashland OR, Birmingham AL or Indianapolis IN with Vaccine Safety Concerns?
As part of CDC's project canvasing the public to find out about their vaccine safety concerns, they have hired a research/policy group, The Keystone Center, to take public statements at a series of "Stakeholder Meetings".
They will be holding public meetings in early January in these three cities, Ashland, OR specifically because they have a very low vaccine uptake rate and want to know why so many families are oping out of vaccinating.
If you are a parent with vaccine safety concerns, please consider attending and sharing your concerns.
I have participated in this project already, and believe that Keystone is earnest in their information gathering effort, however I will be shocked if CDC actually takes the information seriously, and earnestly (and honestly) addresses the problems in the vaccine program. I think that the more likely scenario is that this is PR busywork to make it look like they are taking things seriously, and they will continue on the same path they are on. Full steam on vaccines. (At their recently "Stakeholder Meeting" with vaccine manufacturers, vaccine safety was not the issue, greater liability protection and the elimination of regulatory hurdles for new vaccines was the issue. It was as if the increasingly loud public vaccine safety discussion didn't even exist.).
Because bottom line, CDC already knows ALL of the things that parents like us believe about the problems with vaccine safety and will be presenting during this project. As I told my interviewer at Keystone, "there is nothing that we are telling you that CDC doesn't already know. CDC reads my blog almost every single workday, and visited my site 5 times yesterday. They know all this, and they have not done jack with the information. They don't care".
However... despite my cynicism about this effort, I am encouraging you to participate. Let's get this all on the record so that when CDC ignores it yet again, or designs more bullshit studies that don't actually examine the questions in play, their brazen corruption will only be further highlighted.
Or...
Perhaps Tom Daschle will take over HHS and actually clean up this mess and make me look like a fool for doubting. Wouldn't that be nice.
One final note. Keep in mind as you read this that as low as the vaccine uptake rates are in Ashland, with one school having as many as 66% of children opting out of at least one vaccine, if not all, there have been no disease outbreaks. This is a town that should be closely watched. Just how low do vaccine rates have to go in a town before disease outbreaks occur? David Tayloe, head of AAP, claimed that vaccine uptake must be above 90% to prevent disease outbreaks on the Today Show this year.
This is a town that CDC should be doing serious research on, like the Somali's in Minneapolis and the Amish in PA. It would be a good place for CDC to start in doing a vaccinated v. unvaccinated study. But we all know they won't.
December 27, 2008
Immunization concerns
By Kira Rubenthaler
Ashland Daily Tidings
More than a quarter of Ashland parents choose not to vaccinate their children, and the government wants to know why.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is holding a community meeting Jan. 10 in Ashland to help its Immunization Safety Office prioritize vaccine safety studies beginning in the next five years.
Ashland joins Indianapolis and Birmingham, Ala., as three U.S. cities the CDC is tapping to solicit the public's concerns about vaccines.
"I think what's important about this is it's the government coming out and asking people's opinions, asking their advice, asking them to help set policy," said pediatrician Ben Schwartz, a senior scientific advisor in the Department of Health and Human Services' National Vaccine Program.
Ashland was chosen partly for its high rates of unvaccinated children, Schwartz said.
"We wanted to learn from people who had more concerns about vaccines," he said.
The CDC held the Birmingham meeting Dec. 13 and will hold the Indianapolis meeting Jan. 17 before the National Vaccine Advisory Committee's Vaccine Safety Working Group convenes in Washington, D.C., Feb. 4 to hear the results.
Ashland's meeting will take place Saturday, Jan. 10, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Ashland Middle School commons. Registration and a continental breakfast begin at 8 a.m. and lunch and refreshments will be provided.
Attendees must live within the city limits and be at the meeting all day. Participants qualify for a $50 stipend, which Schwartz said is a "reflection of how we value people's time" and is also aimed at recruiting a cross-section of the community.
The CDC hopes for about 75 attendees, and people must register in advance by calling facilitator The Keystone Center at (800) 219-6670 or going online to www.keystone.org/registration/ashland. For more information, including a link to the draft scientific research agenda, go to www.hhs.gov/nvpo/nvac/publicengagement.html.
High rates
While Birmingham and Indianapolis are more representative of typical communities, Ashland stands out with its "substantially higher" rates of unvaccinated children, Schwartz said.
Oregon requires schoolchildren to be vaccinated against 11 diseases, but parents can opt out by signing a religious exemption, which defines religion as "any system of beliefs, practices or ethical values."
Statewide, 3.7 percent of kindergarteners had exemptions in 2007, while 28.1 percent of Ashland kindergarteners were exempt, according to numbers provided by the Jackson County Health Department.
Ashland's numbers get even higher when broken down by school.
For 2007, 66.7 percent of students at Willow Wind Community Learning Center were exempt, while 65.9 percent of Siskiyou School students and 45.7 percent of John Muir Elementary students had exemptions, according to reports submitted to the health department.
At Walker Elementary, 23.4 percent of students had exemptions, while 15. 3 percent of Bellview students and 14.8 percent of Helman students were exempt.
Belinda Brown, Ashland's school nurse coordinator, said the numbers can be somewhat misleading because if a parent signs a religious exemption for one vaccination but follows the remaining requirements, the child is counted as an exemption.
Regardless, the numbers are still high, "and they're higher than we want them to be," Brown said.
A variety of reasons contribute to the high exemption rates, Brown said.
A small group faces barriers to vaccinating, such as not knowing where to get the shots or lacking money or transportation, but the school works hard to help parents overcome these obstacles, she said.
Some parents are adamantly opposed to immunizations for personal or religious reasons, Brown said, and many are worried about vaccine safety.
It's important to respect parents' choices, but the number of exempt students is troublesome, Brown said.
"It's been an area of concern for the school district and the community at large, and we've been thinking of ways to improve that," Superintendent Juli Di Chiro said at the Dec. 8 school board meeting.
If there were an outbreak of a vaccine-preventable disease, unvaccinated students would have to stay home until it passed. Meanwhile, the school district would be required to provide five hours of one-on-one tutoring each week to every quarantined student, Di Chiro said.
When parents want to sign an exemption, the school tries to make sure they understand the risks of not vaccinating, Brown said.
"It's our job to make sure everyone has the information they need," she said.
Studying the reasons
Information is key for Kaitlin Newman, Shauna Gargus and Joel Carrick, nursing seniors at Oregon Health and Sciences University who are studying Ashland's high exemption rates and how to bring the numbers down.
They have contacted community leaders and school administrators and designed an informational pamphlet, and they talked about their project at the Dec. 8 school board meeting.
Besides running the risk of contracting a serious disease, unvaccinated children also jeopardize others, the students said.
When large segments of a population are not vaccinated, it causes a drop in protection provided by immunizations, a loss of "herd immunity," the students said.
For instance, the elderly and newborn babies are susceptible to pertussis (whooping cough), said Jim Shames, the medical director for Jackson County's Health and Human Services and adviser to the students.
Until the baby is old enough to be vaccinated for pertussis, its only protection is for people around it to be immunized, he said.
"It really takes a community to protect a child," Shames said.
Some children can't be vaccinated for medical reasons, and people with cancer, AIDS and other illnesses that compromise the immune system are also susceptible to catching vaccine-preventable diseases, said OHSU nursing instructor Linda Brown.
Immunizations have largely eradicated many diseases — such as mumps, polio and measles — in the United States, so people don't see their devastating effects and don't think they need to vaccinate, the students said.
But as a tourist town with visitors from around the world — including places where these diseases still exist, Ashland is especially susceptible for an outbreak, the students said.
Many parents choose not to vaccinate because of concerns about reactions to immunizations, but serious reactions are rare, the students said.
"The most common reaction to a vaccine is a sore arm," Gargus said.
Some concerns, like the possible link between vaccines and autism, are unsubstantiated, the students said.
"There's a lot of fears that parents have that a lot of people believe but aren't scientifically proven to be linked to the vaccine," Carrick said.
Parents don't always give equal concern to the complications from the diseases the vaccines aim to prevent, Linda Brown said.
"There's a balance between the risks of disease and the risks of side effects," Shames said.
As a parent, it can be hard to know if you're doing the right thing, Linda Brown said. "And so many of the families in Ashland are very concerned about trying to do the right thing," she said.
A parent's view
Julie Freed is one of those parents.
For her, doing the right thing was not vaccinating.
After a "huge amount of research," Freed, a homeopathic and nutritional consultant, chose to abstain from immunizations for her daughter.
Arianna Marshank, now an eighth-grader at the Siskiyou School, has been vaccinated for tetanus, but has not received the other recommended childhood immunizations.
Freed has signed the religious exemption and has never had any trouble getting her daughter into classes or camps, she said.
Her decision to not vaccinate had a lot to do with the timing of the shots and the amount of them, as well as the potential for side effects, Freed said.
"It's more just the safety aspect and the respect for the immune system developing on its own and not inundating it with chemicals," Freed said.
The amount of vaccines recommended for young children is a challenge to an undeveloped immune system, she said. In addition to the preservatives and chemicals in the vaccines, some of them don't seem necessary at such a young age, she added.
She has also seen adverse reactions to vaccines.
Although nothing has been proven, links suggest that vaccines may cause learning disabilities, autism and SIDS, Freed said. Complicating the issue, there's evidence on both sides to argue for and against vaccinations, she added.
"We don't know. We don't know what these chemicals do to our bodies," Freed said.
Now that her daughter's immune system has developed and she's healthy and strong, feeding her wholesome, organic food and making sure she gets fresh air and exercise "are my choices at keeping illness at bay," Freed said.
Her friends span the range of vaccination theory, with some not vaccinating at all, some who selectively vaccinate, some who don't adhere to the vaccination schedule and some who follow all the recommendations, Freed said.
It comes down to personal choice, and it's important to make an educated decision, she said.
Freed is not opposed to vaccines, but "I do feel like people feel like they don't have a choice," she said.
Whichever option parents pick, it's not an easy decision, Freed said.
"I'm not going to lie. I've had sleepless nights," she said. "We all worry about our kids and are concerned about our kids. And we all want to do what's best for our children."
Kira Rubenthaler can be reached at 482-3456 ext. 225 or krubenthaler@dailytidings.com.
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Sunday, December 28, 2008 9 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Ashland AL, CDC, Keystone
December 25, 2008
Best Christmas Ever
We didn't have to fight the crowds to go anywhere or clean the house for company. We had a little money this year and got to buy the boys things they wanted. We had a beautiful white New England Christmas, except that it was also sunny and bright.
But none of those reasons were the reason that it was the best Christmas ever.
It was the best because Chandler has fully joined us in Christmas this year.
"Who is dis present for"?
"Can I open it?"
"What's inside?"
"Its a... its a... LEGO INDIANA JONES"!
"COOL!"
"Awwwwww.... huuuuugggggssss".
"Wait... where's my Darth Maul light saber?! Gimme dat Webster!"
I remember when we had to sit him on our laps and do hand over hand to get him to unwrap a present, which he may or may not have had any interest in.
This year we had a big breakfast at the table, and he didn't try to leave, or crawl under the table, or stand in his chair. He read his Christmas cards out loud, took turns opening presents, showed off his gifts and took pictures of us. He decorated the tree with us and played Wii bowling and tennis and soccer and even Yoga with us.
He is just with us now.
I even dared to put three glass ornaments on the tree this year. I might even go out tomorrow and pick up some more on sale.
I will leave you with some of his photographs from today. I got the camera out to take pics of the kids, but I forgot to and Chan took over.
Merry Christmas
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Thursday, December 25, 2008 11 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Chandler
December 20, 2008
Thank Senator McCain and Ask Him to Keep Fighting For Our Kids
Lin Wessels, whose sweet son Sam caught Senator McCain's attention more than a year ago, has written a letter to John McCain thanking him for all he has done for our kids and asking him to continue fighting for them from his position in the Senate.
Please consider adding your signature to the letter as I have.
Thank you Senator McCain.
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Saturday, December 20, 2008 2 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: John McCain
December 19, 2008
Jenny McCarthy, JB Handley and Stan Kurtz of Generation Rescue on Larry King Tomorrow
From AOA:
Jenny McCarthy, JB Handley and Stan Kurtz will appear on Larry King Live Saturday Dec. 20 at 9pm eastern, 6pm pacific. The show is focused on autism with very direct discussions about vaccines, how to lower your risks of having a child with autism and how to effectively treat children with autism for their medical issues.
Fire up your TIVOs.
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Friday, December 19, 2008 4 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: JB Handley, Jenny McCarthy, Larry King, Stan Kurtz
December 17, 2008
FDA Officially Jumps The Shark, Tells Pregnant Women To Eat Mercury Laden Fish
From the "How stupid do they think we are" department....
WaPo: FDA Draft Report Urges Consumption of Fish, Despite Mercury Contamination.
They will soon claim that the benefits of the omega 3s found in fish are worth the mercury poisoning.
Apparently they have not heard that you can get cheated fish oil in a little pill which gives pregnant women all the bennies of fish oil with out all the brain damagie effects of mercury.
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., in his comments last summer at the Green our Vaccines rally talked about the phenomenon of agencies being captured by the industries that they are supposed to be regulating. I think that once we find out exactly how this report came to be, this will turn out to be a huge, glaring example of this destructive trend. I will be surprised if we don't find Big Tuna's fin prints all over this thing.
FDA Draft Report Urges Consumption of Fish, Despite Mercury Contamination
By Lyndsey Layton
Washington Post Staff Writer
Friday, December 12, 2008; Page A07
The Food and Drug Administration is urging the government to amend its advisory that women and children should limit how much fish they eat, saying that the benefits of seafood outweigh the health risks and that most people should eat more fish, even if it contains mercury.
If approved by the White House, the FDA's position would reverse the government's current policy that certain groups -- women of childbearing years, pregnant women, nursing mothers, infants and children -- can be harmed by the mercury in fish and should limit their consumption.
The FDA's recommendations have alarmed scientists at the Environmental Protection Agency, who in internal memos criticized them as "scientifically flawed and inadequate" and said they fell short of the "scientific rigor routinely demonstrated by EPA."
The FDA sent its draft report, a copy of which was obtained by The Washington Post, to the White House Office of Management and Budget as part of the FDA's effort to update the existing health advisory. The report argued that nutrients in fish, including omega-3 fatty acids, selenium and other minerals could boost a child's IQ by three points.
The greatest benefits, the FDA report said, would come from eating more than 12 ounces of fish a week, which is the current limit advised for pregnant women, women of childbearing age, nursing mothers and young children.
FDA spokesman Michael Herndon declined to discuss the draft report. "As a science-based regulatory agency we periodically and routinely review and analyze scientific evidence about health effects of FDA-regulated products," he wrote in an e-mail. "We do not comment on draft reports that are undergoing internal review."
Benjamin H. Grumbles, the EPA's assistant administrator for water, said, "EPA is working closely with other agencies in the scientific review of this report to better understand the risks and benefits of fish consumption."
The FDA and the EPA both play a role in protecting the public from mercury contamination. The EPA investigates and regulates mercury and other contaminants in recreationally caught fish, while the FDA regulates mercury in seafood sold in markets and restaurants. States rely on the federal agencies in issuing their own advisories.
In 2004, the two agencies issued their first joint advisory, suggesting that women of childbearing age, pregnant women, nursing mothers, infants and children stop eating four species of fish considered especially high in mercury: swordfish, shark, tilefish and king mackerel. At the same time, the government advised limiting consumption of other mercury-contaminated fish.
Mercury can damage the neurological development of fetuses and infants. Recent studies have suggested that mercury may also pose a health risk for adults, including an increased risk of cardiovascular disease.
The two agencies are supposed to work together to regularly review the advisory, but EPA sources said the FDA went ahead with its own proposal earlier this year, not consulting the EPA until the document was nearly finished.
The Environmental Working Group, an advocacy organization, wrote yesterday to EPA Administrator Stephen L. Johnson and urged him to fight the FDA's recommendations.
"This is an astonishing, irresponsible document," said Richard Wiles, the environmental group's executive director. "It's a commentary on how low FDA has sunk as an agency. It was once a fierce protector of America's health, and now it's nothing more than a patsy for polluters."
Kathryn Mahaffey, who was the EPA's top mercury scientist until she left the agency in August to become a lecturer at George Washington University School of Public Health, said the FDA used an "oversimplified approach" that could increase the public's exposure to mercury.
But Gavin Gibbons, a spokesman for the National Fisheries Institute, applauded the FDA's efforts. "This is a science-based approach," he said. "And you start to see a picture emerge that shows the clear benefits of eating seafood outweigh the risks of a trace amount of mercury in fish."
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Wednesday, December 17, 2008 2 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: FDA, Mercury
December 14, 2008
Methyl B12 and Folinic Acid Raise Glutathione Levels in Autistic Children
Efficacy of methylcobalamin and folinic acid treatment on glutathione redox status in children with autism.
James SJ, Melnyk S, Fuchs G, Reid T, Jernigan S, Pavliv O, Hubanks A, Gaylor DW.
Departments of Pediatrics and Biostatistics, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Arkansas Children's Hospital Research Institute, Little Rock, AR.
BACKGROUND: Metabolic abnormalities and targeted treatment trials have been reported for several neurobehavioral disorders but are relatively understudied in autism.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to determine whether or not treatment with the metabolic precursors, methylcobalamin and folinic acid, would improve plasma concentrations of transmethylation/transsulfuration metabolites and glutathione redox status in autistic children.
DESIGN: In an open-label trial, 40 autistic children were treated with 75 mug/kg methylcobalamin (2 times/wk) and 400 mug folinic acid (2 times/d) for 3 mo. Metabolites in the transmethylation/transsulfuration pathway were measured before and after treatment and compared with values measured in age-matched control children.
RESULTS: The results indicated that pretreatment metabolite concentrations in autistic children were significantly different from values in the control children. The 3-mo intervention resulted in significant increases in cysteine, cysteinylglycine, and glutathione concentrations (P < 0.001). The oxidized disulfide form of glutathione was decreased and the glutathione redox ratio increased after treatment (P < 0.008). Although mean metabolite concentrations were improved significantly after intervention, they remained below those in unaffected control children.
CONCLUSIONS: The significant improvements observed in transmethylation metabolites and glutathione redox status after treatment suggest that targeted nutritional intervention with methylcobalamin and folinic acid may be of clinical benefit in some children who have autism. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00692315.
UPDATE: Some one provided me with a TIF of the full study.
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Sunday, December 14, 2008 10 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Autism Treatments, Studies
December 13, 2008
Christmas Cards for the Kirton Kids!
Many of you know the Kirton family from their many media appearances. All six of their children have been diagnosed with some form of ASD.
Well John has asked for a Christmas Present for his kids...
CHRISTMAS CARDS!
So send one or two or all six of the little nippers a card this week.
Their names are Bobbie (14), Emma (9), Nephi (8), Sarah (6), Ammon (4), Mary (3).
Write to them at:
The Kirton's
6905 South 1300 East Box 321
Midvale, Utah 84047
Keep in mind, they are Mormon, so no need for bland, PC "Holiday" Cards if you are worried about offending.
And you might wanna consider throwing a few bucks in the card. They have six kids with autism for petes sake.
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Saturday, December 13, 2008 1 comment: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: The Kirtons
December 11, 2008
Autism Speaks Hearts Paul Offit
... and Katie Wright, whose son the foundation was created for, is the one spilling the beans.
Time for AS to either change the guard or close their doors.
Anyone up for picketing in front of #2 Park Avenue? Because this is just getting sickening.
A Message to Autism Speaks' Singer and Shih: ENOUGH ALREADY!
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Thursday, December 11, 2008 4 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Autism Speaks, Katie Wright-Hildebrand, Paul Offit
Round Up: DOD, State Health Rankings, HPV Vaccine Related Injury, Mercury in Tuna
So much happening... but my husband just got back from two months away and he is way cuter than you guys, so you get the short end of the stick.
Here are a few things that you should be keeping up with:
Updates on the DOD Story - DOD yanks up the welcome mat and puts out a "gone fishin" sign. Anderson Cooper ditches the story, then unditches it. Army dad says high ranking military officials believe vaccines cause autism.
Vermont - number one in health but coming in last in vaccinations... hmmmmm.
Another girl paralyzed after HPV shot.
Find out why so much mercury is still in tuna.
EPA starts environmental fugitives list.
This is on the front page of US News and World Report's web site:
"Vaccines Get New Scrutiny - Vaccinations are supersafe, but maybe not all at once, or for certain children.
A Parents' Guide to Managing Vaccinations - What to do if you don't want your child to get 8 vaccines at once."
UPDATE: Kirby highlights the amazing quotes in the articles. It is amazing how much faster the vaccine caution ball is rolling. Things are changing faster and faster.
MORE UPDATE: Just go read everything on AOA today. It all kicks ass.
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Thursday, December 11, 2008 4 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Anderson Cooper, DOD, EPA, Mercury, US News and World Report, Vaccine Injury, Vaccine Schedule
December 7, 2008
Vote for Bodies In Rebellion on Change.org
Go sign the letter to Obama and then vote to make it the top health priority on Change.org. We have to stop poisoning our children.
An excerpt:
"We, the undersigned, are very concerned about the increasing scientific evidence showing a positive association between environmental factors, such as mercury and pesticide exposure, and neuroimmune illnesses, most notably autism.
We believe that the many neurotoxins we are exposed to threaten the viability of human life on Earth and that affected children are the 'canaries in the coal mine.' Many illnesses, including breast cancer, prostate cancer, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's have their origins in the rising levels of pernicious chemicals we come in contact with including, but not limited to, the contents of vaccines.
The precautionary principle calls for a zero tolerance on the use of mercury and a moratorium on organochlorine pesticides. In truth, the toxic synergy of the many chemicals humans are exposed to is under-appreciated and makes their removal from the environment a priority well beyond the precautionary principle.
Approximately 4.5 billion pounds of pesticides are applied each year in the USA. When Rachel Carson wrote Silent Spring in the early 1960's, only 400 million pounds of pesticides were used annually. Today, almost 1 out of 3 American children suffer from at least one chronic illness, and 12 million have some form of developmental disorder. The U.S. has the 4th highest incidence of childhood cancer in the world. Since the 1970's, there has been a 50% increase in childhood acute lymphocytic leukemia and a 35% increase in brain cancer. This new pediatric morbidity & mortality is not due to better diagnosis."
To read the rest of the signing statement go to www.BodiesinRebellion.com
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Sunday, December 07, 2008 2 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Kenneth Stoller
December 6, 2008
Tom Daschle is Asking For Your Health Care Stories
Tom Daschle is "asking anybody and everybody to share their health care experiences."
GO TELL HIM!
I encourage you to begin your letter to him, as I have, "I am the _________ of a vaccine injured child". They need to be confronted with that sentence over and over again.
My letter:
I am the mother of a vaccine injured child.
My six year old son had early vaccine reactions, but instead of recognizing them for what they were, his doctors continued to vaccinate him according to the overly aggressive CDC vaccine schedule. After his 18 month shots he began to display the symptoms of Vaccine Induced Encephalopathy, but because his doctors had not been educated on how to look for vaccine induced encephalopathy (loss of eye contact, not responding to stimuli, seem disconnected from the world around them - according to HHS/VICP vaccine injury table http://www.hrsa.gov/vaccinecompensation/table.htm), his doctor called it "Autism", did no medical investigation of his case, and simply sent him for speech and behavioral evaluations.
I had to learn on my own what was medically wrong with my son and figure out how to treat him myself.
Along with the symptoms of "Autism" and Vaccine Encephalopathy, it turns out my son also had mercury poisoning, which he also displayed the symptoms of at that unfortunate appointment. He displayed an inability to speak, neurological damage and digestive system damage, which, according to CDC/ATSDR, are all symptoms of mercury poisoning. http://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/tfacts46.html#bookmark07
But again... my doctor was never taught to look for the symptoms of mercury poisoning, even though he had been injecting children with HUNDREDS of times the EPA safe level of mercury for years. So he just called it "Autism", because that is what CDC/AAP taught him to do.
Autism is a junk diagnosis that tells us NOTHING about what is going on inside a child's body. It allows the medical profession to shrug its shoulders, repeat the mantra, “no known cause or cure” and get away with not even having to take our kids temperature.
Because it has been four year since my son's regression, and the arbitrary and unfair statute of limitations for filing a claim with the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program is three years, unless it is changed, my son will not receive the money he needs, and is legally due, for his injuries.
We have treated him via the emerging medical interventions that mainstream medicine refuses to investigate because they do not want to believe that something that has been so good in the past, vaccination, is now being overly used, causing severe damage and death to children on a huge scale, and that the "autism" epidemic is largely a iatrogenic illness.
My once healthy, social and verbal son could only speak two words, could make no eye contact and would not even answer to his own name after his vaccine induced "autistic" regression. With in 48 hours of putting him on the GF/CF diet to treat his digestive symptoms, he began making eye contact and answering to his name. The FIRST day we began chelating him with DMSA, he looked me in the eye and called me "Mommy" (four times in a row) for the first time since his regression 10 months earlier!
The treatments we are using on him are expensive and all consuming. We sold our home in Los Angeles, my husband quit his job in the entertainment industry, and we moved to much less expensive life in Maine so that we could pay for Chandler's treatment.
Almost every penny comes out of our pocket, as the medical community's denial and obfuscation prevents these long established medical treatments from being properly studied on children with an "Autism" diagnosis.
But if we have to spend every penny we have, down to the shirts on our backs, we will do it.
Because biomedical treatment for "Autism" works! There are over 1100 documented cases of children loosing their diagnosis all together via these methods.
Chandler has not fully recovered, but we have gotten him half way back. He has gone from severe to high functioning autism, he is verbal, with some impairment, almost all "autistic" behaviors like flapping/spinning/self injury are long gone, he is mainstreamed in 1st grade with a helper, and he is a happy boy that plays with his brother and hugs and kisses his loved ones. AND CALLS ME MOMMY!
I have spent four years reading and writing about vaccine induced autism, and the things that have gone on at CDC/HHS/AAP that have caused this epidemic and allowed it to snowball are not only unconscionable, some of them are illegal.
Further, CDC statements that there is no link between autism and vaccination have become completely nonsensical. Julie Gerberding actually went on CNN to talk about the Hannah Poling case, explained that in children with mitochondrial disorders, vaccination can cause "fevers and other complications" that result in the symptoms of autism, and then in the next breath said that vaccines had no relationship to autism. You can watch this absurdest theater for yourself: http://adventuresinautism.blogspot.com/2008/03/julie-gerberding-admits-on-cnn-that.html
HOW STUPID DOES SHE THINK WE ARE!?
THIS HAS TO CHANGE..... NOW!
The vaccine schedule is NOT properly safety tested, it is too aggressive, and doctors are not trained to look for vaccine damage or to know which children are at risk for serious vaccine damage.
BUT MOMS KNOW! We all have the same story. We all saw the same early warnings, told our docs, but they didn't listen. Because CDC/AAP, instead of listening to us, have labeled us “desperate parents” who are “scientifically illiterate” and “looking for someone to blame” for their children’s autism.
So we no longer listen to them. Trust between us and the medical profession is dead. My friends no longer go to their doctors for vaccination advice, they come to me.
There is NO study that shows that the four shots my son was given before his regression are safe when given together, and even the individual shots are not tested against true placebo, but just other versions of the same type of vaccine!
We have been begging for a simple vaccinated v. unvaccinated study to see what overall health out comes for kids are, but CDC/HHS/NIH won't do it. They will allow nothing to stop the run away vaccine program, and they are busy adding MORE VACCINES!
Our kids are not bottomless pits that can constantly have powerful pharmaceuticals poured into them!
I WILL DO WHATEVER, GO WHEREVER AND TELL MY STORY TO WHOMEVER, TO BRING ABOUT VACCINE REFORM!
CHANGE THIS!
Ginger Taylor, M.S.
Brunswick, Maine
Http://www.adventuresinautism.com
Spread the word.
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Saturday, December 06, 2008 3 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Tom Daschle
December 4, 2008
The DOD Aknowledges Autism as a Vaccine Injury
Please read David Kirby's article on the DOD documents that recognize autism as an adverse reaction to the DTaP vaccine, and that thimerosal toxicity, which may also cause autism, be treated with methyl B12 and chelation. In fact DOD is paying for chelation and DAN! doctors for military dependents.
And this stuff is still considered "controversial"???
Additionally, the DOD urges caution in giving multiple vaccines and in not continuing to vaccinate those who have shown previous vaccine reactions.
I am looking forward to the discussion that follows and from hearing from DOD doctors on why they have put out these statements.
But I suspect that it is because, unlike civilian medical authorities and private practices, the military cannot jettison their vaccine injured personnel and dependents. They will have to care for these people, sometimes for the rest of their lives.
So unlike Medicine/Pharma/Federal Government, vaccine injury effects the DOD bottom line, and their actual reason for existing... military readiness.
The Pentagon - A Voice of Reason on Vaccines and Autism?
UPDATE: DOD yanks up the welcome mat and puts out a "gone fishin" sign. Anderson Cooper ditches the story, then unditches it. Army dad says high ranking military officials believe vaccines cause autism.
Several military autism families are digging into this and I would encourage those who are interested in the DOD story to keep an eye on Autism Salutes.
Keep in mind, the Navy was the first organization to implement chelation. In the 1950's they began giving EDTA to those with lead poisoning from paint on ships.
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Thursday, December 04, 2008 7 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Chelation, David Kirby, DOD, Vaccine Induced Encephalopathy
December 3, 2008
1000 Posts
So this is my thousandth post on this blog.
I thought I would mark it by thanking all my readers who have been so encouraging to me over the last four years, and those who have challenged me as well.
And to thank Chandler for all the profound wonder that he has brought into my life.
I love you Chandler P.
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Wednesday, December 03, 2008 2 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Chandler
FDA Reluctantly Admits Mercury Fillings Have Neurotoxic Effects on Children
This is actually recycling an old story from June, but I am gonna run it again anyway because the point needs to be made loudly.
Again... props to Amy and Angela of Mom's Against Mercury for forcing the FDA to do its job.
FDA Reluctantly Admits Mercury Fillings Have Neurotoxic Effects on Children
David Gutierrez Natural News
Wednesday, Dec 03, 2008
For the first time, the FDA has issued a warning that the mercury contained in silver dental fillings may pose neurological risks to children and pregnant women.
"Dental amalgams contain mercury, which may have neurotoxic effects on the nervous systems of developing children and fetuses," reads a statement that has been added to the agency's Web site. "Pregnant women and persons who may have a health condition that makes them more sensitive to mercury exposure, including individuals with existing high levels of mercury bioburden, should not avoid seeking dental care, but should discuss options with their health practitioner."
The warning was one of the conditions that the FDA agreed to in settling a lawsuit filed by several consumer health groups.
"Gone, gone, gone are all of FDA's claims that no science exists that amalgam is unsafe," said Charles Brown, a lawyer for Consumers for Dental Choice, one of the plaintiffs.
"It's a watershed moment," said Michael Bender of the Mercury Policy Project, another plaintiff.
Mercury is a well-known neurotoxin that can cause cognitive and developmental problems, especially in fetuses and children. It can also cause brain and kidney damage in adults.
So-called dental amalgams, or fillings made with a mix of mercury and other metals, have been used since the 1800s. Although it is known that small amounts of mercury are vaporized (and can be inhaled) when the fillings are used to chew food, and though Canada, France and Sweden have all placed restrictions on the use of mercury fillings, the FDA has always insisted that amalgams are safe.
Dental amalgams are considered medical devices, regulated by the FDA.
Even the FDA's new warning stops short of admitting that dental amalgams are dangerous for the general population. Instead, it focuses on the same population that has already been warned to limit mercury exposure by consuming less seafood: children and pregnant women. The FDA says it does not recommend that those who already have mercury fillings get them removed.
Millions of people have received amalgam fillings, although their popularity has dropped off in recent years. Currently, only 30 percent of dental fillings contain mercury - the rest are tooth-colored resin composites made from glass, cement and porcelain. These alternative fillings are more expensive and less durable than amalgam, however.
In 2002, the FDA began a regulatory review of amalgam that was expected to be complete within a few years. In 2006, with the review still incomplete, an independent FDA advisory panel of doctors and dentists rejected the agency's position that there is no reason for concern about the use of amalgam. While the panel agreed that the majority of people receiving such fillings would not be harmed, panel members expressed concern for the health of certain sensitive populations, including children under the age of six.
The panel recommended that the FDA conduct further studies on the risks to children from dental amalgam, and that it consider a policy of informed consent for children and pregnant: that is, warning those groups of the risks associated with the fillings before installing them.
Part of the lawsuit centered on the FDA's failure to respond to these recommendations in a timely fashion.
"This is your classic failure to act," federal judge Ellen Segal Huvelle told the agency.
As part of the lawsuit settlement, the FDA must reach a final decision on the regulation of amalgam by July 28, 2009.
"This court settlement signals the death knell for mercury fillings," Brown predicted.
But J.P. Morgan Securities analyst Ipsita Smolinski disagreed, saying that the FDA is unlikely to ban amalgam entirely
"We do believe that the agency will ask for the label to indicate that mercury is an ingredient in the filling, and that special populations should be exempt from such fillings, such as: nursing women, pregnant women, young children, and immunocompromised individuals," Smolinski said.
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Wednesday, December 03, 2008 18 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: ADA, FDA, Mercury
December 1, 2008
Moms Taking Valproate While Pregnant Increase Risk of Autism
Epilepsy Drug, Pregnancy Raise Autism Risk
Study Shows Kids at Risk for Autism When Pregnant Women Take Valproate
By Bill Hendrick
WebMD Health News
Reviewed by Louise Chang, MD
Dec. 1, 2008 -- Women who take the epilepsy drug valproate while pregnant may increase their child's risk of autism, a new study shows.
British researchers looked at 632 children, almost half of whom were exposed to epilepsy drugs during gestation. Nine of the 632 have been diagnosed with autism, and one has shown symptoms of the disorder, Rebecca Bromley, a PhD student and one of the researchers at the University of Liverpool, tells WebMD.
Sixty-four of the children were exposed to valproate during pregnancy, 44 were exposed to lamotrigine, 76 to carbamazepine, 14 to other single-medication therapies, and 51 to polytherapy treatments for the neurological disorder.
The study, published in the journal Neurology, showed that seven of the children with autism had mothers who took epilepsy drugs while pregnant, including four who were exposed to valproate and a fifth who was exposed to valproate and lamotrigine.
The children whose mothers were taking valproate alone for epilepsy were seven times more likely to develop autism, compared to children whose mothers did not have epilepsy and were not taking any drug while pregnant, the study shows.
Counseling Prior to Pregnancy
The risk seen with valproate was not seen with the other epilepsy drugs, Bromley says. None of the children in the study had any known family history of autism.
"The take-home message is that women with epilepsy should be provided with counseling regarding their condition and its treatment prior to pregnancy," Bromley tells WebMD in an email interview. "It is important to consider that not every child is affected."
She says women with epilepsy should not stop taking their current epilepsy treatments without medical consultation with their doctors.
Bromley says three youngsters born to women without epilepsy who were not medicated also were diagnosed with autism.
That's the same rate as reported in the general population, Bromley says. The autistic children were tested at the ages of 1, 3, and 6. Two-thirds of the children were 6 years old by the time the study ended.
"The children were diagnosed independently of our study team by community psychiatrists with normal clinical practice," Bromley tells WebMD.
"This study highlights the importance of pre-conceptual advice, information, and treatment for women with epilepsy from her physician," Bromley says. "Parents who have concerns regarding the development of their child should consult their family doctor."
She says women who are pregnant and require medical treatment should talk to their doctors about possible effects on unborn babies.
Effects on Brain Development
Page Pennell, MD, director of the epilepsy program at Emory University in Atlanta, says the study is "very helpful" because it "is confirmatory of other smaller studies that we need to be concerned about, not only the effects of the medications during the first trimester, but also about continued effects of the medication on the developing brain."
Previous studies suggested concern about the effects of valproate in particular, Pennell tells WebMD, and that "the effects may be more selective for verbal abilities. The strength of this study that stands out is, there was really a rather large cohort of patients followed prior to birth and then in a systematic way up to the age of 6 years old."
Sodium valproate is an effective drug used to control seizures, Bromley says. She adds that some women have been prescribed the medication because "it is very effective at controlling the type of epilepsy they have."
Pennell says the study suggests the need to "consider exposure throughout the entire pregnancy" and even before conception. "Also, this study raises concern not only for the effects on brain development in general, but the specific finding of autism spectrum disorders points out that the children should be followed closely to be able to identify features of autism during development to allow early intervention."
She says she'd recommend that women of childbearing age steer clear of valproate unless it's the only medication that can control seizures. "Most of these women unfortunately have to be on a medicine. But the idea is, women of childbearing age should be on another anti-epileptic drug."
Pennell says 50% percent of pregnancies in the U.S. are unplanned, so women of childbearing age should talk carefully with their doctors about any anti-epileptic medications.
Laureen Cassidy, a vice president for Abbott Laboratories, which manufactures Depakote, a brand-name version of valproate, says "uncontrolled seizures can cause permanent damage" to the brains of children and "for pregnant women can be fatal to both mother and child." The product's label "makes it clear that it should not be used as a first-line treatment for women of childbearing age."
Raquel Powers, another spokeswoman, says "it's a global drug" and that its risks are well known.
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Monday, December 01, 2008 1 comment: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Causation Theories, Epilepsy, Valproate
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Wanna Help?
Follow Me
The Highlights
Why I no longer participate in the US Immunization Program
Extended, Fair, Balanced, Live, Unedited, Mainstream Media Vaccine Debate Happens
Julie Gerberding Tells CNN that Vaccines Trigger Autism
Looking For Information on How To Vaccinate More Safely?
An Introduction to Chandler: Birth to Diagnosis
The History of Thimerosal
Here's Why the Disdain...
"No Evidence of Any Link"
Autism in God's Economy
Maine CDC Autism Conference
Contradictory Rulings in Vaccine Court
Head of AAP Lies About Vaccine Safety
Irresponsible Journalism in Autism
Matt Lauer, Anderson Cooper and George Stephanopoulos Adopt Skeptic Community/Science Media's Failing Tactics
Revisiting James Murdoch, Brian Deer, The Sunday Times, GlaxoSmithKline and the Attack on Andrew Wakefield
Bill Gates Attacks Andrew Wakefield and the Vaccine Safety Community
My Testimony to the Maine Legislature on Two Informed Consent Vaccine Bills
The Most Dangerous Question in Public Health: "What can you tell me about vaccine encephalopathy?"
The Canary Party: Done With Bad Faith
Search This Blog
About Me
Ginger Taylor
Autism Mom, Writer, Speaker, Advocate, Activist, Therapist, Conservative, Christian.
View my complete profile
E-mail Me
email
AT
adventuresinautism
DOT
com
Subscribe
Posts
Atom
Posts
All Comments
Atom
All Comments
Subscribe Via Email
Enter your Email
My Blog List
AGE OF AUTISM
The State of Herd Immunity in Maine
1 hour ago
autism's gadfly
Problems with Adult autism and Prevalence: John Elder Robison to the rescue
1 week ago
The Refusers
The Refusers Refuse To Be Dumbed Down, A Refreshing Release – Black Velvet Magazine
2 years ago
Facing Autism in New Brunswick
October 18, 2003: Andy Scott Called for a Strong National Autism Strategy; Will October 19, 2015 Deliver A Government That Will Make It Happen?
3 years ago
The Vaccine Machine
Not a fan of Pan
4 years ago
Autism Jabberwocky
The End of the Beginning
4 years ago
My Socrates Note
Vaccines and Religion…Just Not How you Think
5 years ago
Inside Vaccines
About The Vaccine Injury Compensation Program
5 years ago
Injecting Sense
CHANGING THE PERCEPTION: DADS ARE WARRIORS TOO
6 years ago
Blog Archive
► 2018 (8)
► October (1)
► September (2)
► August (2)
► July (1)
► June (2)
► 2017 (24)
► November (4)
► October (13)
► September (2)
► April (1)
► February (1)
► January (3)
► 2016 (2)
► October (1)
► January (1)
► 2015 (12)
► December (1)
► November (1)
► September (1)
► June (1)
► May (3)
► April (4)
► March (1)
► 2014 (8)
► December (1)
► November (1)
► October (1)
► September (2)
► July (1)
► April (1)
► January (1)
► 2013 (12)
► December (1)
► August (2)
► July (3)
► June (1)
► April (1)
► March (2)
► February (2)
► 2012 (35)
► December (1)
► November (1)
► October (1)
► September (1)
► August (1)
► July (2)
► June (2)
► May (4)
► April (6)
► March (5)
► February (1)
► January (10)
► 2011 (84)
► December (4)
► November (2)
► September (5)
► August (2)
► July (2)
► June (2)
► May (5)
► April (25)
► March (15)
► February (9)
► January (13)
► 2010 (87)
► December (2)
► November (5)
► October (5)
► September (10)
► August (12)
► July (12)
► June (12)
► May (7)
► April (5)
► March (9)
► February (2)
► January (6)
► 2009 (112)
► December (7)
► November (2)
► October (13)
► September (10)
► August (10)
► July (26)
► June (6)
► May (13)
► April (10)
► March (4)
► February (2)
► January (9)
▼ 2008 (296)
▼ December (15)
Any parents in Ashland OR, Birmingham AL or Indian...
Best Christmas Ever
Thank Senator McCain and Ask Him to Keep Fighting ...
Jenny McCarthy, JB Handley and Stan Kurtz of Gener...
FDA Officially Jumps The Shark, Tells Pregnant Wom...
Methyl B12 and Folinic Acid Raise Glutathione Leve...
Christmas Cards for the Kirton Kids!
Autism Speaks Hearts Paul Offit
Round Up: DOD, State Health Rankings, HPV Vaccine ...
Vote for Bodies In Rebellion on Change.org
Tom Daschle is Asking For Your Health Care Stories...
The DOD Aknowledges Autism as a Vaccine Injury
1000 Posts
FDA Reluctantly Admits Mercury Fillings Have Neuro...
Moms Taking Valproate While Pregnant Increase Risk...
► November (20)
► October (12)
► September (13)
► August (16)
► July (55)
► June (13)
► May (13)
► April (38)
► March (79)
► February (17)
► January (5)
► 2007 (196)
► December (8)
► November (3)
► October (7)
► September (5)
► August (5)
► July (38)
► June (68)
► May (26)
► April (24)
► March (2)
► February (5)
► January (5)
► 2006 (150)
► December (10)
► November (19)
► October (41)
► June (2)
► May (5)
► April (32)
► March (5)
► February (20)
► January (16)
► 2005 (314)
► December (87)
► November (48)
► October (36)
► September (23)
► August (55)
► July (13)
► June (23)
► May (14)
► April (3)
► March (1)
► February (11)
► 2004 (45)
► December (1)
► November (3)
► October (5)
► September (5)
► August (15)
► July (16)
Followers
Recommended Reading
Awesome Inc. theme. Powered by Blogger.