Drug | Addiction Blog - Part 6
Skip to content
addiction blog an American Addiction Centers Resource
Call Now. 24/7 Help Available.
All calls free and confidential
1-888-882-1456 i Who answers?
HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS
For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Addictionblog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution.
Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC).
Caring admissions consultants are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. These representatives work solely for AAC and will discuss whether an AAC facility may be an option for you.
Our helpline is offered at no cost to you and with no obligation to enter into treatment. Neither Addictionblog.org nor AAC receives any commission or other fee that is dependent upon which treatment provider a visitor may ultimately choose.
For more information on AAC’s commitment to ethical marketing and treatment practices, or to learn more about how to select a treatment provider, visit our About AAC.
If you wish to explore additional treatment options or connect with a specific rehab center, you can browse top-rated listings, visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA.
Alcoholism
alcohol
Drugs
Cocaine
Crack
Ecstasy
Heroin
Marijuana
Meth
Molly
Morphine
Spice
Prescription Drugs
Adderall
Ambien
Ativan
Buprenorphine
Hydrocodone
Methadone
Morphine
Oxycodone
Oxycontin
Percocet
Ritalin
Suboxone
Tramadol
Ultram
Valium
Vicodin
Xanax
About AAC
Treatment Q&A
Costs
Financing
Insurance
Interventions
Special Populations
Identifying Addiction
Rehab
Alcohol rehab
Drug rehab
The rehabilitation process
Rehab programs
Outpatient rehab
Inpatient rehab
Search
Call American Addiction Centers to find help with rehab.
Drug
Comprehensive guide to illicit drug use, abuse, and addiction. Scientific guides to the most used and dangerous drug people use today.
Marijuana
A basic definition of marijuana as a psychoactive substance, with info on addictive properties and most common effects. More here!
Lee Weber
Author of "The Definitive Guide to Addiction Interventions"
2
minute read
June 8, 2016
What is marijuana?
Marijuana is a preparation made from parts of the cannabis plant (Cannabis sativa) which often appears as dry crumbly mixture of leaves, flowers, seeds and stems. Each part of the cannabis plant has different concentrations of THC, and the flowers have the highest concentrations followed by the leaves. Therefore, most marijuana preparations are made from flowers and leaves. THC or tetrahydrocannabinol is the principal psychoactive constituent of marijuana. THC has a chemical formula C21H30O2 and is the psychoactive element which triggers euphoria in users. Still, marijuana is just one of many psychoactive products made from the cannabis plant. Other psychoactive preparations made from cannabis include kief (trichomes from the flower), hashish (concentrated resin from the flowering buds), hash oil (highly concentrated oil from the plant) and edibles, which are food and drink prepared with added cannabis extracts or actual marijuana.
Why do people use marijuana?
Several factors may trigger marijuana use. These include medical or therapeutic use, euphoric effect, or as a coping mechanism for psychological/emotional issues. In fact, marijuana can subjectively help people relieve the stress, anxiety, fear, pain or anger related to personal, psychological or family issues. And, because popular culture increasingly endorses marijuana use with a low perception of harm, some people use marijuana to relax. Further, people may use marijuana recreationally to feel altered senses and perception of time, place and present situation. Therapeutic uses of marijuana include treatments for:
As an adjunct cancer therapy
Diseases affecting the nerves or nerve cells
Glaucoma
Migraines
Movement disorders
Pain caused by structural, muscular, or psycho-physiological disorders
To address symptoms of AIDS
To treat malnutrition (an appetite stimulant)
Marijuana effects
Marijuana mainly targets the nervous system. Our brain, made of nerve cells, include areas called cannabinoid receptors, which are places at which THC can attach and cause effects. However, these cannabinoid receptors are located in areas of the brain involved with memory, concentration, perception and movement. Therefore, marijuana use often cause changes to these cognitive functions. Marijuana can affect:
Concentration
Memory
Movement
Perception
In low to moderate doses, marijuana can cause the following effects:
A sense of relaxation
An altered sense of time, sound and space and sight
Bloodshot eyes
Dryness of the mouth
Lowered attention
Lowered inhibition
Nausea
Sleepiness
High doses of marijuana can cause hallucinations, delusions and disorientation, and/or impaired memory. Regular marijuana users report hunger and increased appetite for food, altered 'magical' or 'random' sense of thinking, inability to concentrate, paranoia, anxiety, or depression.
Is marijuana addictive?
Absolutely. The marijuana abuse potential is great, since it is a psychoactive drug. Users can become addicted to marijuana, and develop both physical and psychological marijuana dependence. If you use marijuana, you may be addicted to it if you use it daily, experience cravings for marijuana, or if you are having drug-related problems that affect your school, work, or home life. For more on marijuana, see:
Marijuana detox
Marijuana withdrawal
Marijuana addiction treatment
16 Comments
Leave a Comment
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
I have read and agree to the conditions outlined in the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
Name *
Email *
Website
Subscribe to this post
Subscribe to Addiction Blog updates
ali says:
January 8, 2019 at 2:17 am
i am an underage user and i ive been addicted to marijuana,i used to smoke at the least 6 times everyday and now i’ve cut it to once a day and i cant go 2 days without withdrawing and becoming depressed and i recognized i was addicted when i went a week without smoking dealing with goosebumps, being hot when its cold and vice versa, i would like to seek help at a rehab but i’m afraid id get social workers involved and my mom doesn’t know i’ve been smoking, i’m sure she has an idea but our neighbors also smoke which makes it partially harder for me to wanna remain sober and my plug just recently went to jail so i need advice on what to do until i start fiending again
Reply
Kate @ Addiction Blog says:
January 15, 2019 at 10:56 am
Hi ali. Marijuana can cause a lot of problems especially to an underage person. Here’s a link where you can find more info :https://teens.drugabuse.gov/drug-facts/marijuana
Also, I advise you to talk with your mom and tell her about your problem. I’m sure she will understand and be supportive. Then, both of you can explore some treatment options. Please feel free to call us so we can help you find the best treatment options.
Reply
Jennifer S. says:
December 31, 2018 at 4:14 am
Great info about my favorite herb ever! Cannabis is my life!
Reply
Cody says:
November 10, 2018 at 5:35 am
Was an every day weed smoker for about 5 years , recently quit for 4 months . But did take a few tokes for the first time 9 days ago . I have a swab test tomorrow for a new job , do you think I’ll test positive ?
Reply
Lee Weber says:
November 13, 2018 at 4:55 pm
Hi Cody. The sensitivity of saliva tests is not well established in the case of marijuana. But, in most cases, marijuana is only detected for 1 day on a saliva tests.
You can find more info here: https://addictionblog.org/infographics/marijuana-detection-timelines-infographic/
Or you can download our e-book-The Definitive Guide to Drug Testing. You can check it out here: https://addictionblog.org/ebooks/the-definitive-guide-to-drug-testing/
Reply
Gilbert says:
October 22, 2018 at 5:39 am
Marijuana has some well-proven benefits, including relief for long-term pain. But smoking marijuana can have some bad effects on your health, including making breathing problems worse.
Reply
Nicole says:
October 16, 2018 at 11:26 pm
Is this website still active? I am in desperate need of help With want to do. Ive Known for a while that my 16 yo son has smoked weed but I just found out that my son is now selling it. I’ve been telling him to stop Since I found out he was smoking. Not only has he not listened, he has now elevated his game to selling. I’m distraught. he’s a nice kid, respectful to others but has been making stupid impulsive decisions his whole life due to his ADHD. I’m not making excuses but I’ve seen this coming pretty much his whole life and I’ve been trying to do everything I can as a parent to avoid it yet here it is.. not only has he not listens, he is now elevated his game. I’m distraught he’s a good kid but has been making stupid impulsive decisions his whole life due to his ADHD. I’m not making excuses but I’ve seen this coming pretty much his whole life I’ve been trying to avoid it yet here it is
Reply
Lee Weber says:
November 9, 2018 at 4:53 pm
Hi Nicole. It is really tough to stay strong in your position, especially as a parent. But, you should keep trying. I suggest you call the helpline number displayed on our site to get in touch with our trusted treatment providers who can help you access adequate treatment program for your son.
Reply
Canada says:
August 9, 2018 at 10:44 am
There’s no such things as addiction when you know your limitations. Just use Marijuana with a proper usage . Just limit your self and use it moderately.
Reply
Margo says:
July 4, 2018 at 12:28 pm
Hi there.
I know for sure that marijuana is addictive. My husband likes such things and sometimes he relaxes in such a way. But a few weeks ago we’ve realised that our son has maybe allergy or so for these smells.
Can someone help and give a piece of advice? What should we do?
I’ve read a lot of information about that, but still confused. I’ve read about vapes on the Vapingdaily. Maybe it’s not that dangerous while using vape? Have someone tried? Or maybe someone knows?
Would be grateful for any advice.
Reply
Jim says:
April 21, 2018 at 10:54 am
I agree about the benefits of cannabis. I had the worse insomnia ever, but when I started vaping cannabis and eating edibles with cannabutter, I always have the most relaxing sleep ever! Thanks for the informative article here!
Reply
Kenna says:
February 11, 2018 at 9:08 pm
I weigh 170 lbs how long will 2 hits stay iny sysyem
Reply
Lydia @ Addiction Blog says:
February 13, 2018 at 11:24 am
Hi Kenna. Usually, marijuana can be detected up to 3-4 days after the last use. But, this detection period is longer for long-term users and/or binge users. If you want to learn more about drug testing and detection period of certain substances, download our free e-book ‘The Definitive Guide To Drug Testing’ here: http://addictionblog.org/ebooks/the-definitive-guide-to-drug-testing/
Reply
Bill says:
June 3, 2017 at 10:10 am
Marijuana is not physically addictive. It is, however, emotionally addictive. Withdrawal side affects from cannabis could hardly classify it as physically addictive.
Reply
Tokey says:
December 14, 2016 at 5:22 am
Please help me as I am forgetting that I am a dad and my kids are young and they need me to sober up and be responsible for them.
Reply
Lydia @ Addiction Blog says:
December 19, 2016 at 2:09 pm
Hi Tokey. I suggest that you call the helpline you see on the website to get in touch with a trusted treatment consultant.
Reply
Related Posts
Is marijuana addictive?
Marijuana Metabolism in the Body: How Marijuana Affects the Brain (INFOGRAPHIC)
Effects of marijuana on the brain (INFOGRAPHIC)
Negative, adverse effects of marijuana (INFOGRAPHIC)
The negative effects of marijuana on the brain (INFOGRAPHIC)
Long term effects of marijuana addiction (INFOGRAPHIC)
Long term effects of marijuana on your body (INFOGRAPHIC)
Long term effects of smoking marijuana on sex and pregnancy (INFOGRAPHIC)
Swinger lifestyle info: STD facts and safety
Should Google publish info about illegal drugs?
Does weed kill brain cells?
by Lee Weber | September 13, 2011 August 29, 2018
No, weed does not kill brain cells. But it can quicken age related memory loss. Still, long term physical alteration of ...
Does marijuana cause brain damage?
by Lee Weber | September 12, 2011 August 29, 2018
We think so. Marijuana affects the brain but marijuana use has not been conclusively linked to brain damage. What do sc ...
Smoking herbal incense effects
by Charles Somerville | September 11, 2011 November 15, 2018
Herbal incense can mimic the effects of cannabis. But users report more adverse than positive effects when smoking herba ...
Does weed cause memory loss?
by Lee Weber | September 9, 2011 February 6, 2019
Yes, weed causes memory loss. Is it only short term memory loss or is long term memory affected, too? How does weed work ...
Can you get addicted to weed?
by Lee Weber | September 5, 2011 November 2, 2018
Yes, you can get addicted to weed. If you smoke chronically, your risk of addiction is high. More on weed addiction here ...
Ingredients of legal weed
by Charles Somerville | September 1, 2011 August 29, 2018
Is fake weed harmful? Yes, fake weed ingredients can cause harm. The active compound present in legal weed is a syntheti ...
How Long Does Marijuana, Weed, Pot (THC) Stay In Your System?
by Lee Weber | July 25, 2011 March 22, 2019
The half life of THC depends on potency, frequency of use and mode of administration. But generally, the THC found in ma ...
Why people use marijuana: Top 10 reasons
by Lee Weber | June 9, 2011 August 23, 2018
Marijuana: medicine or illict drug? Top 10 reasons people use marijuana here, plus a comment section for debate. ...
Palliative medicine and illegal drugs
by Lee Weber | February 10, 2011 November 19, 2018
Artist Nash Hyon explores the question, "What is a Poison? What is a Remedy?" in her series on plants (some illegal) tha ...
Top 10 medical uses for marijuana
by Lee Weber | February 8, 2011 August 17, 2018
Although marijuana has been stigmatized for the cognitive impairment of people who use it, can it actually help some peo ...
Ready for help?
Call us today. You don’t need to face addiction on your own.
1-888-882-1456
← Previous
Next →
SPEAK WITH OUR ADMISSIONS NAVIGATORS
1-888-882-1456
– OR –
LET US CALL YOU
3RD-SAM-ACAD WEB-ADDICTIONBLOG-FORM
Start your
recovery today.
Find Out How
Get Support. Find Recovery.
Recovery is possible for everyone. It takes hard work,
dedication, and most of all… a desire to be free of addiction.
Find A Treatment Center
Home
Contact
Advertising
Contributors
Publishers
Terms of use
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
This site complies with the
HONcode standard for trustworthy
health information: verify here.
|
Copyright © 2019 AddictionBlog.org | For immediate help, call 1-888-882-1456
I am ready to call
i Who Answers?
×
HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS
For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Addictionblog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution.
Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC).
Caring admissions consultants are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. These representatives work solely for AAC and will discuss whether an AAC facility may be an option for you.
Our helpline is offered at no cost to you and with no obligation to enter into treatment. Neither Addictionblog.org nor AAC receives any commission or other fee that is dependent upon which treatment provider a visitor may ultimately choose.
For more information on AAC’s commitment to ethical marketing and treatment practices, or to learn more about how to select a treatment provider, visit our About AAC.
If you wish to explore additional treatment options or connect with a specific rehab center, you can browse top-rated listings, visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA.