High blood cholesterol levels
Call CommunityCare at 1-877-321-0022 for more information and rate quotes.
Call CommunityCare at 1-877-321-0022 for more information and rate quotes.
Home
View Plans
Individual & Family Plans
Senior Health Plan
Employer Group Plans
Provider Search
Prescription Drug Search
Members
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Employers
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Security Request Form
Providers
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Security Request Form
Brokers
Wellness
Search
Provider Search
Prescription Drug Search
Website Search
Health Encyclopedia
Preferred CommunityChoice PPO
WorkNet
Employee Assistance Program
ExcelCare
Networks & Affiliations
Preferred CommunityChoice PPO
WorkNet
Employee Assistance Program
ExcelCare
Contact Us
Take Charge
Your Symptoms
Self Care
In-Depth Reports
Diseases & Conditions
Surgeries & Procedures
Injuries
Tests
Complementary & Alternative Medicine
Multimedia Encyclopedia
Tobacco Cessation
Calculators
Smoking Cessation
Body Mass Index Calculator
Calorie Burner Counter Calculator
Target Heart Rate Calculator
Desirable Body Weight Calculator
Nutritional Needs Calculator
Waist to Hip Calculator
Risky Drinking
Wellness Tools
Stress and Anxiety
Diet & Nutrition
Emotional Health
Fitness
Sleep Health
Work & Life Balance
Career Burnout
Allergy
Cancer Prevention Guide
Depression
Diabetes
Heart Attack & Disease Risk
Menopause
Pain
Stroke Risk
Additional Resources
Wellness Promotions
Symptom Checker
Preventive Health Guidelines
Important Health Topics
Browse A-Z
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
0-9
Print-Friendly
Bookmarks
High blood cholesterol levels
Cholesterol - high; Lipid disorders; Hyperlipoproteinemia; Hyperlipidemia; Dyslipidemia; Hypercholesterolemia
Cholesterol is a fat (also called a lipid) that your body needs to work properly. Too much bad cholesterol can increase your chance of getting heart disease, stroke, and other problems.
The medical term for high blood cholesterol is lipid disorder, hyperlipidemia, or hypercholesterolemia.
Test Your Cholesterol Knowledge
What does a lipid profile (also called a lipid panel) measure?
A. Total cholesterol
B. LDL cholesterol
C. HDL cholesterol
D. Triglycerides
E. All of the above
Correct Answer
The correct answer is all of the above. The test measures the level of these fats, or lipids, in your blood. Cholesterol is found in all parts of the body. Your body needs a little bit of cholesterol. But too much cholesterol can clog your arteries and lead to heart disease and stroke. Some cholesterol is considered "good" (HDL) and some is considered "bad." (LDL)
Having high LDL cholesterol is healthy.
A. True
B. False
Correct Answer
The correct answer is false. When you have too much LDL, or "bad," cholesterol in your blood, it can build up on artery walls, causing them to become hard and narrow. The lower your LDL, the lower your risk for heart disease. Ask your doctor what your LDL level should be.
Which type of cholesterol is called "good" cholesterol?
A. HDL cholesterol
B. LDL cholesterol
Correct Answer
The correct answer is HDL. HDL helps remove LDL cholesterol from artery walls. HDL levels of 60 mg/dL or above helps protect you from heart disease. HDL below 40 mg/dL for men and below 50 mg/dL for women can increase your risk for heart disease.
Having high cholesterol and triglyceride levels increases your risk for:
A. The buildup of fat, cholesterol, and other substances on your artery walls that makes them narrower (atherosclerosis)
B. Heart attack
C. Stroke
D. All of the above
Correct Answer
The correct answer is all of the above. When plaque builds up on your artery walls, blood clots can form that block blood flow to the heart or brain, causing a heart attack or stroke. Talk with your doctor about how you can lower your risk for heart disease.
Medicine is the only treatment for high cholesterol and triglycerides.
A. True
B. False
Correct Answer
The correct answer is false. Improving your health habits can lower cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Sometimes, lifestyle changes alone aren't enough, so your doctor may prescribe medicine.
Which habits can lead to high cholesterol levels?
A. Smoking
B. Obesity
C. Eating foods high in fat and cholesterol
D. Not getting enough exercise
E. High alcohol use
F. All of the above
Correct Answer
The correct answer is all of the above. Family history, diabetes, and other medical problems also increase your risk. Ask your doctor about healthy changes you can make to help lower high cholesterol.
If you are overweight, losing 5 to 10 pounds can help lower cholesterol levels.
A. True
B. False
Correct Answer
The correct answer is true. To lose about one pound a week, eat about 500 fewer calories a day. You can lose weight by eating smaller portions. Also replace low-fiber, high-fat foods with lean meats and other proteins, whole grains, low-fat dairy products, and plenty of fruits and vegetables.
Getting regular exercise can improve your cholesterol numbers.
A. True
B. False
Correct Answer
The correct answer is true. Exercising 30 minutes a day at least 5 days a week can increase HDL levels by about 5 percent. If you haven't been active, check with your doctor before starting to exercise. Start by walking just a few minutes several times a week. Build up to 30 minutes of brisk exercise 5 days a week.
Heart-healthy fats include:
A. Saturated fats and trans fats
B. Monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats
Correct Answer
The correct answer is monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats. They are found in fish, nuts, seeds, avocados, and olive, canola, corn, soy, and sunflower oils. Replacing saturated and trans fats with these healthy fats helps lower LDL and increase HDL. Omega-3s from fish help lower high triglycerides.
Quitting smoking can help you:
A. Increase your HDL, or "good," cholesterol by 10%
B. Decrease your risk of a heart attack 24 hours after quitting
C. Lower your risk of heart disease by half one year after quitting
D. All of the above
Correct Answer
The correct answer is all of the above. Quitting isn't easy, but keep in mind that the more times you attempt to quit, the more likely you are to be successful.
Causes
There are many types of cholesterol. The ones talked about most are:
Total cholesterol -- all the cholesterols combined
High density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol -- often called "good" cholesterol
Low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol -- often called "bad" cholesterol
For many people, abnormal cholesterol levels are partly due to an unhealthy lifestyle. This often includes eating a diet that is high in fat. Other lifestyle factors are:
Unhealthy lifestyle
Your body needs cholesterol to work well. But cholesterol levels that are too high can harm you. Cholesterol is measured in milligrams per deciliter...
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Eating a diet that is high in fat
A healthy diet is a major factor in reducing your risk for heart disease.
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Being overweight
Lack of exercise
Previous imagePlay SlideshowStop SlideshowNext image
/
Some health conditions can also lead to abnormal cholesterol, including:
Diabetes
Kidney disease
Polycystic ovary syndrome
Pregnancy and other conditions that increase levels of female hormones
Underactive thyroid gland
Medicines such as certain birth control pills, diuretics (water pills), beta-blockers, and some medicines used to treat depression may also raise cholesterol levels. Several disorders that are passed down through families lead to abnormal cholesterol and triglyceride levels. They include:
Familial combined hyperlipidemia
Familial dysbetalipoproteinemia
Familial hypercholesterolemia
Familial hypertriglyceridemia
Smoking does not cause higher cholesterol levels, but it can reduce your HDL (good) cholesterol.
Exams and Tests
A cholesterol test is done to diagnose a lipid disorder. Different experts recommend different starting ages.
Recommended starting ages are between 20 to 35 for men and 20 to 45 for women.
Adults with normal cholesterol levels do not need to have the test repeated for 5 years.
Repeat testing sooner if changes occur in lifestyle (including weight gain and diet).
Adults with a history of elevated cholesterol, diabetes, kidney problems, heart disease, and other conditions require more frequent testing.
It is important to work with your health care provider to set your cholesterol goals. Newer guidelines steer doctors away from targeting specific levels of cholesterol. Instead, they recommend different medicines and doses depending on a person's history and risk factor profile. These guidelines change from time to time as more information from research studies becomes available.
General targets are:
LDL: 70 to 130 mg/dL (lower numbers are better)
HDL: More than 50 mg/dL (high numbers are better)
Total cholesterol: Less than 200 mg/dL (lower numbers are better)
Triglycerides: 10 to 150 mg/dL (lower numbers are better)
Previous imagePlay SlideshowStop SlideshowNext image
/
If your cholesterol results are abnormal, you may also have other tests such as:
Blood sugar (glucose) test to look for diabetes
Kidney function tests
Thyroid function tests to look for an underactive thyroid gland
Treatment
Steps you can take to improve your cholesterol levels and to help prevent heart disease and a heart attack include:
Quit smoking. This is the single biggest change you can make to reduce your risk of heart attack and stroke.
Eat foods that are naturally low in fat. These include whole grains, fruits, and vegetables.
Use low-fat toppings, sauces, and dressings.
Avoid foods that are high in saturated fat.
Exercise regularly.
Lose weight if you are overweight.
Your provider may want you to take medicine for your cholesterol if lifestyle changes do not work. This will depend on:
Your age
Whether or not you have heart disease, diabetes, or other blood flow problems
Whether you smoke or are overweight
Whether you have high blood pressure or diabetes
You are more likely to need medicine to lower your cholesterol:
Medicine to lower your cholesterol
Your body needs cholesterol to work properly. But extra cholesterol in your blood causes deposits to build up on the inside walls of your blood vess...
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
If you have heart disease or diabetes
If you are at risk for heart disease (even if you do not yet have any heart problems)
Almost everyone else may get health benefits from LDL cholesterol that is lower than 160 to 190 mg/dL.
There are several types of drugs to help lower blood cholesterol levels. The drugs work in different ways. Statins are one kind of drug that lowers cholesterol and has been proven to reduce the chance of heart disease.
Outlook (Prognosis)
High cholesterol levels can lead to hardening of the arteries, also called atherosclerosis. This occurs when fat, cholesterol, and other substances build up in the walls of arteries and form hard structures called plaques.
Hardening of the arteries
Hardening of the arteries, also called atherosclerosis, occurs when fat, cholesterol, and other substances build up in the walls of arteries. These ...
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Previous imagePlay SlideshowStop SlideshowNext image
/
Over time, these plaques can block the arteries and cause heart disease, stroke, and other symptoms or problems throughout the body.
Disorders that are passed down through families often lead to higher cholesterol levels that are harder to control.
Open References
References
Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.
Semenkovich CF. Disorders of lipid metabolism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. Goldman-Cecil Medicine. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 206.
Stone NJ, Robinson J, Lichtenstein AH, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2014;129(25 Suppl 2):S1-S45. PMID: 24222016 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222016.
US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation summary. Statin use for the primary rrevention of cardiovascular disease in adults: preventive medication. www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/UpdateSummaryFinal/statin-use-in-adults-preventive-medication1. Updated November 2016. Accessed March 21, 2018.
US Preventive Services Task Force, Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, Curry SJ, et al. Screening for lipid disorders in children and adolescents: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. JAMA. 2016;316(6):625-633. PMID: 27532917 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27532917.
BACK TO TOP
All
Video
Images
Tog
Cholesterol and tr...
Animation
Cholesterol and triglyceride test - Animation
Cholesterol producers - illustration
Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like material that is found in all parts of the body. It comes from two sources our liver produces it, and we consume it in meat and dairy products.
Cholesterol produc...
Illustration
Coronary artery disease - illustration
The coronary arteries supply blood to the heart muscle itself. Blood supply through these arteries is critical for the heart. Coronary artery disease usually results from the build-up of fatty material and plaque, a condition called atherosclerosis. As the coronary arteries narrow, the flow of blood to the heart can slow or stop, causing chest pain (stable angina), shortness of breath, heart attack, or other symptoms.
Coronary artery di...
Illustration
Cholesterol - illustration
Cholesterol is a soft, waxy substance that is present in all parts of the body including the nervous system, skin, muscle, liver, intestines, and heart. It is made by the body and obtained from animal products in the diet. Cholesterol is manufactured in the liver and is needed for normal body functions including the production of hormones, bile acid, and Vitamin D. Excessive cholesterol in the blood contributes to atherosclerosis and subsequent heart disease. The risk of developing heart disease or atherosclerosis increases as the level of blood cholesterol increases.
Cholesterol
Illustration
Developmental process of atherosclerosis - illustration
The development of arterial atherosclerosis may occur when deposits of cholesterol and plaque accumulate at a tear in the inner lining of an artery. As the deposits harden and occlude the arterial lumen, blood flow to distant tissues decreases and a clot may become lodged, completely blocking the artery.
Developmental proc...
Illustration
Cholesterol and tr...
Animation
Cholesterol and triglyceride test - Animation
Cholesterol producers - illustration
Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like material that is found in all parts of the body. It comes from two sources our liver produces it, and we consume it in meat and dairy products.
Cholesterol produc...
Illustration
Coronary artery disease - illustration
The coronary arteries supply blood to the heart muscle itself. Blood supply through these arteries is critical for the heart. Coronary artery disease usually results from the build-up of fatty material and plaque, a condition called atherosclerosis. As the coronary arteries narrow, the flow of blood to the heart can slow or stop, causing chest pain (stable angina), shortness of breath, heart attack, or other symptoms.
Coronary artery di...
Illustration
Cholesterol - illustration
Cholesterol is a soft, waxy substance that is present in all parts of the body including the nervous system, skin, muscle, liver, intestines, and heart. It is made by the body and obtained from animal products in the diet. Cholesterol is manufactured in the liver and is needed for normal body functions including the production of hormones, bile acid, and Vitamin D. Excessive cholesterol in the blood contributes to atherosclerosis and subsequent heart disease. The risk of developing heart disease or atherosclerosis increases as the level of blood cholesterol increases.
Cholesterol
Illustration
Developmental process of atherosclerosis - illustration
The development of arterial atherosclerosis may occur when deposits of cholesterol and plaque accumulate at a tear in the inner lining of an artery. As the deposits harden and occlude the arterial lumen, blood flow to distant tissues decreases and a clot may become lodged, completely blocking the artery.
Developmental proc...
Illustration
A Closer Look
Hypercholesterolemia
Cholesterol
Atherosclerosis
Diabetes
High blood pressure
High blood pressure
Myocardial infarction
Diabetes - type 1
Stroke
Diabetes - type 2
Self Care
Cholesterol and lifestyle
Cholesterol testing and results
Cholesterol - drug treatment
Type 2 diabetes - self-care
Dietary fats explained
Bile acid sequestrants for cholesterol
Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
Long-term complications of diabetes
Understanding the DASH diet
Living with heart disease and angina
Tests for High blood cholesterol levels
Blood sugar test
VLDL test
Triglyceride level
Protein electrophoresis - serum
Apolipoprotein B100
Comprehensive metabolic panel
Related Information
Triglyceride level
Hardening of the arteries
Hypothyroidism
Cushing syndrome
Acute kidney failure
Alcohol use and safe drinking
Overweight
Coronary heart disease
Stroke
Cholesterol - what to ask your doctor
Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor
Cholesterol - drug treatment
Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
Angina - discharge
Heart attack - discharge
Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge
Aspirin and heart disease
Being active after your heart attack
Being active when you have heart disease
Cholesterol
Hypothyroidism
Weight control and diet
Review Date: 2/22/2018
Reviewed By: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. © 1997- A.D.A.M., a business unit of Ebix, Inc. Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited.
A.D.A.M. content is best viewed in IE9 or above, Fire Fox and Google Chrome browser.
Privacy & Compliance
Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (Consumer Information Disclosure)
HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act)
Report Suspected Health Care Fraud, Waste or Abuse
Compliance Program and Code of Excellence
Nondiscrimination Statement
Careers
When you choose CommunityCare as your employer, you join a staff of highly motivated individuals who make CommunityCare Oklahoma's best choice for healthcare.
CommunityCare is just as dedicated to our employees as we are to our customers and our business. We make it a priority to provide our staff with all the tools necessary to have a long, fruitful career with our company.
Find out more
Newsroom Activity
Seasonal Triggers for Individuals With COPD
4/19/2019
Do You Take Diabetes Medicine?
3 months ago
Care Corner: You Asked, We Answer
3 months ago
Visit the Newsroom
Home
Contact Us
Find Health Insurance
Health & Wellness
Employee Assistance Program
Site Map
Language Assistance
Español
Tiếng Việt
繁體中文
한국어
Deutsch
العربية
Hmoob
Tagalog
Français
ພາສາລາວ
ภาษาไทย
اُردُو
tsalagi gawonihisdi
فارسی
© 2019 CommunityCare, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
tul-pubweb-4
CommunityCare is proudly owned by our region's two premier health systems. Other physicians and providers are available in our network.