MRI Impact on Offspring in Pregnancy | Specifiko
Try WeChat Application
Step 1: Scan QR code to follow specifiko service account on WeChat
Step 2: Click "微信登录" to start
Dismiss What is WeChat? Learn More
Specifiko
简体中文
Login
Wechat
Corporate Login
简体中文
Login
Wechat
Corporate Login
Watch Videos
Open Access Journals
PubMed Search
How It Works
Contact Us
Investors
Corporate Solutions
About Specifiko
Terms
Privacy
Translation Disclaimer
Back
MRI Impact on Offspring in Pregnancy
Journal of the American Medical Association - September 8, 2016 MRI造影剂钆(Gd)在妊娠早期对胎儿的可能影响。 Possible effect of MRI gadolinium contrast on fetus in the first trimester of pregnancy.
Transcript
Vocabulary
Click highlights to see translations
Dr. Joel Ray, St. Michael's Hospital: Hi, Lauren. Joel Ray. Nice to see you.
Laura Kelly, Reporter, The JAMA Report: Should women take a pregnancy test before having an MRI? A new study published in The Journal of the American Medical Association looked at the safety of magnetic resonance imaging during pregnancy, especially during the first trimester.
WOMAN: Are there any risks to the baby?
JR: We already have a fair amount of data on CAT scan safety in pregnancy, but MRI was lacking.
LK: Dr. Joel Ray and his colleagues at St. Michael's Hospital in Toronto analyzed data collected over 12 years and concluded that MRI in the first trimester was not harmful to the developing fetus.
JR: A first trimester MRI is unlikely to be harmful, so special pregnancy testing or measures are unlikely to be required.
LK: Women undergoing an MRI with the contrast agent gadolinium at any point during pregnancy were also included in the study. These MRIs with contrast were associated with a higher risk of fetal death and a variety of inflammatory and skin conditions in the newborn.
JR: For gadolinium, it reinforces what's, to date, an evidence-free notion that gadolinium might harm the fetus, and in this case, gadolinium contrast would be best avoided in pregnancy.
LK: This is Laura Kelly for The JAMA Report.
American Medical Association 美国医学协会◆【略】AMA
at any point 在任何方面; 在任何一点
before having a magnetic resonance imaging 在进行核磁共振成像前◆【略】MRI
colleague 同事【名词】同事，同行
computerized axial tomography scan 轴向计算层析成象技术扫描◆【略】CAT
computerized axial tomography scan safety 轴向计算层析成象技术扫描的安全型◆【略】CAT
conditioning 调理
contrast agent 造影剂
data analysis 数据的分析
developing fetus 发育中的胎儿
during pregnancy 妊娠期间
during the first trimester 在第一孕期
evidence 【名词】1. 证据 2. 形迹；迹象 3. 【法律】证据，证人；证词 4.明显；显著; 【及物动词】1. 证明; 2. 显示
evidence-free notion 无证据的观点
fair amount of data 相当数量的资料
fetal 胎儿；胎儿的；胎的
fetal death 胎儿死亡
fetus 胎儿
first trimester 妊娠第一期; 妊娠前三个月；妊娠早期
gadolinium 钆◆ Gd
gadolinium contrasting 钆对比◆【略】Gd
hospital 医院【名词】院，住院
imaging 成像【名词】影像学，影像，图像，显，造影
inflammatory 【形容词】1. 刺激性的，煽动性的; 2. 【病理学】炎性的; 炎症性的; 易红肿的
lack 【及物/不及物动词】缺乏，不足，没有； 【名词】缺乏，不足
magnetic resonance 磁共振；核磁共振◆【略】MR
magnetic resonance image 磁共振成像◆【略】MRI
magnetic resonance imaging with contrast mri与对比◆【略】MRI
magnetics 磁性元件【名词】磁学，磁
medical association 医学协会
medical journal 医学期刊
newborn 新生儿【名词，形容词】新生的，初生的，再生的，复活的
pregnancy 怀孕【名词】1. 怀孕，妊娠；怀孕期；(事件等的)蕴酿; 2. (比喻)丰富，丰满；含蓄，(内容)充实，富有意义
pregnancy test 妊娠试验；怀孕测试
reinforce 加强【及物动词】1. 增兵，增援; 2. 增强，加固，补强；补充，增加；添加，补足; 【不及物动词】求援；得到援助
resonance 共振【名词】谐振，共鸣，磁共振
skin 皮肤【名词】肌肤，皮，肤，护肤，表皮，肤色
skin condition 皮肤病
The Journal of the American Medical Association 《美国医学协会杂志》◆【略】JAMA
To date 迄今为止
trimester 三个月; 妊娠三个月分期；(一年)三学期制
undergo 【及物动词】1. 经受，经历，接受；2. 遭受，忍受
×
Wechat
This feature is available to WeChat users
Learn How it Works