Gene: MSH2 (Young adult onset cancer)
Toggle navigation
PanelApp
Panels
Genes and Entities
Activity
Log in
Register
Panels
Young adult onset cancer
MSH2
Genes in panel
Prev Next
BRCA1 1
BRCA2 1
FAP 1
MLH1 1
MSH2 1
MUTYH 1
TP53 1
STRs in panel
Prev Next
Regions in panel
Prev Next
This Panel is marked as Internal
Young adult onset cancer
Gene: MSH2
Red List (low evidence)
MSH2 (mutS homolog 2)
EnsemblGeneIds (GRCh38): ENSG00000095002
EnsemblGeneIds (GRCh37): ENSG00000095002
OMIM: 609309, Gene2Phenotype
MSH2 is in 32 panels
Reviews (1)
Details
History
1 review
Ellen McDonagh (Genomics England Curator)
Mode of inheritance
Unknown
Phenotypes
Colorectal cancer
16 Mar 2017, 1:59 p.m.
Panel version: 0.9
Details
Mode of Inheritance
Unknown
Sources
Eligibility statement prior genetic testing
Phenotypes
Colorectal cancer
OMIM
609309
Clinvar variants
Variants in MSH2
Penetrance
Complete
Panels with this gene
Inherited colorectal cancer (with or without polyposis)
Inherited non-medullary thyroid cancer
Tumour predisposition - adult onset
Ovarian cancer pertinent cancer susceptibility
Tumour predisposition - childhood onset
Bladder cancer pertinent cancer susceptibility
Familial Tumours Syndromes of the central & peripheral Nervous system
Haematological malignancies cancer susceptibility
Familial breast cancer
Inherited ovarian cancer (without breast cancer)
Inherited MMR deficiency (Lynch syndrome)
Inherited polyposis
Familial prostate cancer
Pigmentary skin disorders
Childhood solid tumours cancer susceptibility
Upper gastrointestinal cancer pertinent cancer susceptibility
Neurofibromatosis Type 1
Sarcoma cancer susceptibility
Renal cancer pertinent cancer susceptibility
Inherited renal cancer
Brain cancer pertinent cancer susceptibility
Adult solid tumours cancer susceptibility
Familial rhabdomyosarcoma
Colorectal cancer pertinent cancer susceptibility
Prostate cancer pertinent cancer susceptibility
Genodermatoses with malignancies
Haematological malignancies for rare disease
Fetal anomalies
Endometrial cancer pertinent cancer susceptibility
Multiple monogenic benign skin tumours
Inherited pancreatic cancer
Adult solid tumours for rare disease
History Filter Activity
16 Mar 2017, Gel status: 0
Added New Source
Ellen McDonagh (Genomics England Curator)
MSH2 was added to Young adult onset cancerpanel. Sources: Eligibility statement prior genetic testing
16 Mar 2017, Gel status: 0
Created
Ellen McDonagh (Genomics England Curator)
MSH2 was created by ellenmcdonagh
×
Rating
If promoting or demoting a gene, please provide comments to justify a decision to move it.
Green list criteria
Genes included in a Genomics England gene panel for a rare disease category (green list) should fit the criteria A-E outlined below.
These guidelines were developed as a combination of the ClinGen DEFINITIVE evidence for a causal role of the gene in the disease(a), and the Developmental Disorder Genotype-Phenotype (DDG2P) CONFIRMED DD Gene evidence level(b) (please see the original references provided below for full details). These help provide a guideline for expert reviewers when assessing whether a gene should be on the green or the red list of a panel.
A. There are plausible disease-causing mutations(i) within, affecting or encompassing an interpretable functional region(ii) of this gene identified in multiple (>3) unrelated cases/families with the phenotype(iii).
OR
B. There are plausible disease-causing mutations(i) within, affecting or encompassing cis-regulatory elements convincingly affecting the expression of a single gene identified in multiple (>3) unrelated cases/families with the phenotype(iii).
OR
C. As definitions A or B but in 2 or 3 unrelated cases/families with the phenotype, with the addition of convincing bioinformatic or functional evidence of causation e.g. known inborn error of metabolism with mutation in orthologous gene which is known to have the relevant deficient enzymatic activity in other species; existence of an animal model which recapitulates the human phenotype.
AND
D. Evidence indicates that disease-causing mutations follow a Mendelian pattern of causation appropriate for reporting in a diagnostic setting(iv).
AND
E. No convincing evidence exists or has emerged that contradicts the role of the gene in the specified phenotype.
(i)Plausible disease-causing mutations: Recurrent de novo mutations convincingly affecting gene function. Rare, fully-penetrant mutations - relevant genotype never, or very rarely, seen in controls. (ii) Interpretable functional region: ORF in protein coding genes miRNA stem or loop. (iii) Phenotype: the rare disease category, as described in the eligibility statement. (iv) Intermediate penetrance genes should not be included.
References
(a) ClinGen Clinical Validity Classifications originally dated July 2014, and updated Oct 2015
(b) The Development Disorder Genotype - Phenotype Database and PMID: 25529582
Close
×
Mode of pathogenicity
Exceptions to loss of function
It’s assumed that loss-of-function variants in this gene can cause the disease/phenotype unless an exception to this rule is known. We would like to collect information regarding exceptions. An example exception is the PCSK9 gene, where loss-of-function variants are not relevant for a hypercholesterolemia phenotype as they are associated with increased LDL-cholesterol uptake via LDLR (PMID: 25911073).
If a curated set of known-pathogenic variants is available for this gene-phenotype, please contact us at [email protected]
Terms
We classify loss-of-function variants as those with the following Sequence Ontology (SO) terms:
transcript_ablation
splice_acceptor_variant
splice_donor_variant
stop_gained
frameshift_variant
stop_lost
initiator_codon_variant/start_lost
Term descriptions can be found on the PanelApp homepage and Ensembl.
Close
×
Current diagnostic
If you are submitting this evaluation on behalf of a clinical laboratory please indicate whether you report variants in this gene as part of your current diagnostic practice by checking the box
Close
×
Mode of inheritance
Standardised terms were used to represent the gene-disease mode of inheritance, and were mapped to commonly used terms from the different sources. Below each of the terms is described, along with the equivalent commonly-used terms.
MONOALLELIC, autosomal or pseudoautosomal, not imprinted
A variant on one allele of this gene can cause the disease, and imprinting has not been implicated.
MONOALLELIC, autosomal or pseudoautosomal, maternally imprinted (paternal allele expressed)
A variant on the paternally-inherited allele of this gene can cause the disease, if the alternate allele is imprinted (function muted).
MONOALLELIC, autosomal or pseudoautosomal, paternally imprinted (maternal allele expressed)
A variant on the maternally-inherited allele of this gene can cause the disease, if the alternate allele is imprinted (function muted).
MONOALLELIC, autosomal or pseudoautosomal, imprinted status unknown
A variant on one allele of this gene can cause the disease. This is the default used for autosomal dominant mode of inheritance where no knowledge of the imprinting status of the gene required to cause the disease is known. Mapped to the following commonly used terms from different sources: autosomal dominant, dominant, AD, DOMINANT.
BIALLELIC, autosomal or pseudoautosomal
A variant on both alleles of this gene is required to cause the disease. Mapped to the following commonly used terms from different sources: autosomal recessive, recessive, AR, RECESSIVE.
BOTH monoallelic and biallelic, autosomal or pseudoautosomal
The disease can be caused by a variant on one or both alleles of this gene. Mapped to the following commonly used terms from different sources: autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant, recessive or dominant, AR/AD, AD/AR, DOMINANT/RECESSIVE, RECESSIVE/DOMINANT.
BOTH monoallelic and biallelic, autosomal or pseudoautosomal (but BIALLELIC mutations cause a more SEVERE disease form), autosomal or pseudoautosomal
A variant on one allele of this gene can cause the disease, however a variant on both alleles of this gene can result in a more severe form of the disease/phenotype.
X-LINKED: hemizygous mutation in males, biallelic mutations in females
A variant in this gene can cause the disease in males as they have one X-chromosome allele, whereas a variant on both X-chromosome alleles is required to cause the disease in females. Mapped to the following commonly used term from different sources: X-linked recessive.
X linked: hemizygous mutation in males, monoallelic mutations in females may cause disease (may be less severe, later onset than males)
A variant in this gene can cause the disease in males as they have one X-chromosome allele. A variant on one allele of this gene may also cause the disease in females, though the disease/phenotype may be less severe and may have a later-onset than is seen in males. X-linked inactivation and mosaicism in different tissues complicate whether a female presents with the disease, and can change over their lifetime. This term is the default setting used for X-linked genes, where it is not known definitately whether females require a variant on each allele of this gene in order to be affected. Mapped to the following commonly used terms from different sources: X-linked dominant, x-linked, X-LINKED, X-linked.
MITOCHONDRIAL
The gene is in the mitochondrial genome and variants within this can cause this disease, maternally inherited. Mapped to the following commonly used term from different sources: Mitochondrial.
Unknown
Mapped to the following commonly used terms from different sources: Unknown, NA, information not provided.
Other - please specify in evaluation comments
For example, if the mode of inheritance is digenic, please indicate this in the comments and which other gene is involved.
Close