Will Grapefruit Burn Up Body Fat? | Healthy Eating | SF Gate
SFGate
Healthy Eating
by Demand Media
News
Sports
Business
A&E
Food
Living
Travel
Columns
More
Less
Cars
Jobs
Real Estate
Find&Save
Skip to main content.
Healthy Eating
Healthy Meals
Planning Meals
by Leaf Group
Healthy Eating
Healthy Meals
Planning Meals
Will Grapefruit Burn Up Body Fat?
Written by Sandra King; Updated November 27, 2018
Will Grapefruit Burn Up Body Fat?
Related Articles
1 Does Grapefruit Have Vitamin C?
2 What Nutrients Does Grapefruit Have?
3 Does Grapefruit Juice Burn Belly Fat?
4 Does Grapefruit Stabilize Your Blood Glucose?
Grapefruit has been advertised by some diet experts for decades as a potential fat reducer. Other nutrition professionals note it simply doesn’t live up to its reputation as a fat-melting wonder food. Everyone should agree, however, that, whether you’re hoping to lose pounds or boost your health, grapefruit can be a positive addition to a nutritious diet. It doesn’t play well with some medications, though, so you may want to check with your doctor before adding grapefruit to your meal plan.
The Grapefruit Promise
Rumors about grapefruit’s ability to burn fat have been circulating since about 1930, and numerous variations of the grapefruit diet have existed ever since. A few small research studies have shown promising results regarding grapefruit as a weight-loss tool.
According to a study published in PLOS|One in 2014, mice lost weight on a high-protein diet that included grapefruit juice. The Journal of Medicinal Food concluded a study in 2006, posted on the PubMed site, showing that obese humans drinking grapefruit juice, eating grapefruits or taking grapefruit supplements lost more weight than those who didn’t get any grapefruit.
Grapefruit also appeared to lower insulin resistance in the test groups of both studies, which is a major factor in managing or helping prevent Type 2 diabetes. Both studies concluded that, while it’s not understood exactly how, grapefruit may play a role in weight reduction.
But several studies contradict these findings, including one published by Metabolism Journal and posted on PubMed. Those researchers concluded that consuming grapefruit every day for six weeks did not significantly decrease body weight.
While the possibility may continue prompting research, study findings still haven't proved that grapefruit burns fat. Most medical experts agree that it probably doesn’t.
What About the Grapefruit Diet?
The grapefruit diet has undergone significant changes through the years. Depending on which version you’re considering, the plan may require:
Decreasing rice, potatoes and other carbs in your diet, including sugar
Avoiding celery, white onion and other foods thought to inhibit grapefruit’s fat-burning potential
Consuming more eggs, bacon, red meat and other high-protein/high-fat foods
Eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice before or with every meal (no sugar added)
It’s meant to be a temporary diet that provides quick weight loss, as much as 10 pounds in 12 days. Along with adding grapefruit to your menu, you must also cut your intake to 1,000 calories or less per day and greatly reduce your carb intake.
Many people do experience weight loss on the plan, most of which is probably water and muscle, and possibly a little fat. And most people restricting their calories and carbs in the same way would lose weight – with or without the grapefruit.
It’s possible that eating grapefruit before your meal helps you feel full so that you eat less. Grapefruit contains a lot of water, and that likely adds to your feeling of fullness. However, there’s no other evidence suggesting that grapefruit is a vital component of losing weight on this diet.
The Undeniable Truth About Grapefruit
This tangy, low-calorie citrus fruit is a storehouse for impressive amounts of vitamins A and C. It also contains other antioxidants, namely lycopene, which help your body mount a defense against free radicals found in the environment and in the foods you eat.
Free radicals are thought to play a role in the development of cancer, heart disease and other serious medical conditions. Grapefruit also contains flavonoids and potassium, which may help lower your risk of stroke and heart disease when consumed as part of a nutritious diet.
As long as you don’t use a cup or two of sugar to mask the tartness, grapefruit can add healthy, juicy flavor to your daily meal plan. It works for breakfast, as a midmorning snack or when paired with other citrus fruits at dinnertime for a light, calorie-conscious dessert.
Check With Your Doctor
Grapefruit can interfere with the efficacy of prescription and over-the-counter medications and may cause serious issues. Talk to your doctor if you’re taking medicine and planning to add grapefruit to your menu.
Medications grapefruit may affect include:
Some statins used to lower high cholesterol, such as Zocor (simvastatin) and Lipitor (atorvastatin)
Certain medications used to treat high blood pressure, such as Procardia and Adalat CC (both nifedipine)
Cyclosporine, used to help prevent organ transplant rejection
Buspirone for anxiety
Budesonide, a corticosteroid used to treat Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis
Amiodarone for abnormal heart rhythms
Antihistamines, such as Allegra (fexofenadine)
References (5)
WebMD: The Grapefruit Diet
PLOS|One: Consumption of Clarified Grapefruit Juice Ameliorates High-Fat Diet-Induced Insulin Resistance and Weight Gain in Mice
PubMed.gov: Journal of Medicinal Food: The Effects of Grapefruit on Weight and Insulin Resistance: Relationship to the Metabolic Syndrome
PubMed.gov: Metabolism: The Effects of Daily Consumption of Grapefruit on Body Weight, Lipids, and Blood Pressure in Healthy, Overweight Adults
U.S. Food and Drug Administration: Grapefruit Juice and Some Drugs Don't Mix
About the Author
Sandra King uses her life experience as a small business owner, single parent, community volunteer and obsessive traveler to write about a variety of topics. She holds degrees in communication and psychology and has earned certificates in medical writing, business management and landscape gardening. She uses her writing skills to inform her audience of the many interesting adventures available in life and provides tips for growing beyond the challenges you’ll meet along the way.
bibliography-icon icon for annotation tool Cite this Article
Choose Citation Style
MLA
APA
Chicago (B)
King, Sandra. "Will Grapefruit Burn Up Body Fat?" Healthy Eating | SF Gate, http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/grapefruit-burn-up-body-fat-11117.html. 27 November 2018.
King, Sandra. (2018, November 27). Will Grapefruit Burn Up Body Fat? Healthy Eating | SF Gate. Retrieved from http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/grapefruit-burn-up-body-fat-11117.html
King, Sandra. "Will Grapefruit Burn Up Body Fat?" last modified November 27, 2018. http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/grapefruit-burn-up-body-fat-11117.html
Copy Citation
Note: Depending on which text editor you're pasting into, you might have to add the italics to the site name.
Related Articles
Does Eating Grapefruit Make You Lose Weight?
Grapefruit Drug Interaction List
Glucose & Grapefruit Juice
Does Red Grapefruit Raise Your Blood Sugar?
Benefits of Eating Grapefruit
Benefits of Cactus Leaf in the Diet
More Articles
Lose Weight Fast While Eating Regularly
Does Grape Juice Increase HDL?
Is Grapefruit Juice the Same as Eating Grapefruit?
The Many Benefits of a Daily Grapefruit
What Vitamins Help Burn Fat & Increase Metabolism?
Do You Lose Weight Faster by Eating Less or Exercising?
Return to top ➡
About
Contact
Connect
Subscribe
Privacy Notice Your California Privacy Rights Interest Based Ads Terms of Use Our Company The Press: Guide to Wine Country Green State: Cannabis Culture Careers Advertising
Customer Service Newsroom Contacts
Sign up for Email Alerts Facebook Twitter Pinterest Google Instagram
SFChronicle.com App e-edition The Chronicle Archives Subscription Offers Store Subscriber Services
Copyright 2018 Hearst Newspapers, LLC