 Grapefruit Juice | Belly Bytes
Where it's ALL about food!
Toggle Navigation
Home
Nutrients
Recipes
Fab Foods
Herbs
Food Facts
Nibbles
Belly Bytes
Home
Fab Foods
Grapefruit Juice
By Belly Bytes
Go Pink
Pink grapefruit juice supplies 1087 I.U. of vitamin A, while the white provides a minimal 25 I.U.
Grapefruit Juice Nutrients
With the exception of vitamin B12, the juice swells with B vitamins with 10 mg of thiamin, .05 mg of riboflavin, and .49 to .57 mg of niacin. Folic acid content is about 25.7 mcg, while vitamin C ranges from 72 to 93.9 mg.
One-cup canned grapefruit juice has about 100 calories and 1 to 2 grams of protein. Most canned grapefruit juice is sold with the pulp removed, resulting in a loss of fiber. The carbohydrate content of the juice is similar to the grapefruit sections with 17 to 22 grams.
Pink grapefruit juice supplies 1087 I.U. of vitamin A, while the white provides a minimal 25 I.U.
With the exception of vitamin B12, the juice swells with B vitamins with 10 mg of thiamin, .05 mg of riboflavin, and .49 to .57 mg of niacin. Folic acid content is about 25.7 mcg, while vitamin C ranges from 72 to 93.9 mg.
Calcium content varies from 17.2 to 22.3 mg, and potassium offers 378 to 400 mg. Iron and zinc are present with zinc providing 12 to 22 mg and iron at .05 mg.
Juice It for Energy
Juice a grapefruit or eat a fresh grapefruit for energy! They're full of thiamin, which helps convert food into energy you need. Eating a grapefruit daily can help metabolize the food you eat into energy your body can use. Niacin also is used for DNA repair.
Calcium content varies from 17.2 to 22.3 mg, and potassium offers 378 to 400 mg. Iron and zinc are present with zinc providing 12 to 22 mg and iron at .05 mg.
Grapefruit Juice May Boost Bone Health
A new study is underway to see if drinking fresh squeezed grapefruit juice every day can help prevent osteoporosis. Scientists are optimistic because a recent study in the journal "Nutrition" found that rats fed grapefruit pulp had greater bone density and a slower rate of bone loss than those wthat weren't. The high antioxidant level in the fruit may be the key, although no one knows for sure.
Cautions: Grapefruit Juice and Medications
Chemicals in grapefruit juice and grapefruit pulp interfere with the enzymes that break down (metabolize) various drugs in the digestive system - including certain calcium channel blockers and cholesterol-lowering drugs. There is an enzyme in the wall of the intestine called P-450 that breaks down some medications. The result can be excessively high levels of these drugs in the blood and an increased risk of potentially serious side effects. (Source: Mayo Clinic)
Here's a sampling of drugs that could have potentially serious interactions with grapefruit:
Amiodarone (Cordarone) - A drug used to treat and prevent abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias)
Buspirone (BuSpar), sertraline (Zoloft) - Antidepressants
Carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Tegretol) - An anti-seizure medication
Cyclosporine (Neoral, Sandimmune), tacrolimus (Prograf) - Immunosuppressant drugs
Felodipine (Plendil), nifedipine (Procardia), nimodipine (Nimotop), nisoldipine (Sular) - Calcium channel blockers used to treat high blood pressure
Saquinavir An HIV medication
Simvastatin (Zocor), lovastatin (Mevacor), atorvastatin (Lipitor) - Statins used to treat high cholesterol
If you drink grapefruit juice regularly, it would be a good idea to inquire about its possible interaction with any medications you may be taking or any new drugs that are added. Some sources recommend not drinking grapefruit juice within 2 hours before and 5 hours after a drug that may interact with it. A safer approach would be to substitute another citrus juice, such as orange juice, which has the same vitamins but has not demonstrated the drug interactions.
Remember that eating grapefruit or taking grapefruit supplements may also interact with the same medications. Some drinks that are flavored with fruit juice could be flavored with grapefruit juice. Check the label, if you are not sure.
What Can Happen?
When grapefruit juice inhibits this enzyme, the drug becomes more powerful than intended. This is especially important for patients taking a calcium channel blocker for high blood pressure. Some have complained of weakness, and dizziness, presumably due to an excessive drop in pressure.
You should also avoid taking antihistamines with grapefruit juice. You may end up oversedated and develop a heart-rhythm disturbance. Statins, the cholesterol-lowering drugs, become 15 times more potent! The effect can vary, depending on the drug. To be safe, do not take any medications with grapefruit juice.
Ambrosia Crepes Recipe Card
Share This Page
Back to Fab Foods
You may also like...
Grapefruit Food Facts
Grapefruit Fizz
Privacy
Site Map
Belly Blessings
Belly Busters
Food Fact Fotos
Advertise
Contact
Thank you for visiting!