Lower High Cholesterol Naturally with Diet & Exercise
Topics A-Z Slideshows Images Quizzes Medications
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©2018 WebMD, Inc. All rights reserved. eMedicineHealth does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See Additional Information.
home cholesterol centerTopic Guide
High Cholesterol Management
Medical Author: Benjamin Wedro, MD, FACEP, FAAEM
Benjamin Wedro, MD, FACEP, FAAEM
Dr. Ben Wedro practices emergency medicine at Gundersen Clinic, a regional trauma center in La Crosse, Wisconsin. His background includes undergraduate and medical studies at the University of Alberta, a Family Practice internship at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario and residency training in Emergency Medicine at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center.
Medical Editor: Charles Patrick Davis, MD, PhD
Charles Patrick Davis, MD, PhD
Dr. Charles "Pat" Davis, MD, PhD, is a board certified Emergency Medicine doctor who currently practices as a consultant and staff member for hospitals. He has a PhD in Microbiology (UT at Austin), and the MD (Univ. Texas Medical Branch, Galveston). He is a Clinical Professor (retired) in the Division of Emergency Medicine, UT Health Science Center at San Antonio, and has been the Chief of Emergency Medicine at UT Medical Branch and at UTHSCSA with over 250 publications.
Lifestyle Cholesterol Management Related Articles
Cholesterol Levels
Cholesterol Slideshow
Take the Nutrition Quiz
Cholesterol Picture
High Cholesterol
Lower Cholesterol Tips
Heart Disease Quiz
What Are the Risk Factors for Heart Disease and High Cholesterol?
Where Can You Get Your Cholesterol Tested?
What Do the Cholesterol Numbers Mean (Chart)?
How Do I Lower My Cholesterol Through Exercise?
How Much Exercise Do I Need?
Is There a Diet to Lower Cholesterol?
What Foods Lower High Cholesterol Levels?
High Cholesterol Management Topic Guide
What Are the Risk Factors for Heart Disease and High Cholesterol?
Share Your Story
It is possible to minimize the risk of heart disease, one of the leading causes of death in the United States. High blood cholesterol can lead to coronary artery disease, heart attack, transient ischemic attack (TIA), stroke, and peripheral artery disease; keeping cholesterol levels in the normal range can decrease the risk of these diseases.
Lifestyle changes can let you take control of your heart health, and managing your cholesterol level is one such important lifestyle change. Other risk factors that can also be controlled include maintaining normal blood pressure, exercising, keeping your weight within normal limits, quitting smoking, and controlling diabetes and stress.
While one cannot control risk factors like age and family history of heart disease or stroke, it is possible to minimize the other risk factors to live a longer and healthier life.
Knowing your cholesterol number is a good first step in reducing risk. These include total cholesterol, HDL (high density lipoprotein or good cholesterol), LDL (low density lipoprotein or bad cholesterol) and triglyceride levels. Together they are part of a blood screening test called a lipoprotein analysis and can give direction to you and your health-care professional about the potential need to control cholesterol levels.
If a person's cholesterol levels are normal, but they have other risk factors for heart attack or stroke, they still may want to lower their cholesterol levels further.
Diet and exercise are strategies to use to lower your cholesterol before cholesterol-lowering medications are prescribed.
Where Can You Get Your Cholesterol Tested?
Measuring your cholesterol involves taking a sample of blood. Often your health-care professional will recommend and arrange these tests during an office visit, although it is best to have the blood drawn after fasting for 14-16 hours.
Cholesterol screening opportunities are often available in the community such as:
Screenings held in shopping centers
Community health fairs
Neighborhood medical clinics
Home testing devices
Work site testing
Cholesterol Levels Slideshow
Lower Cholesterol Slideshow
High Cholesterol Quiz
What Do the Cholesterol Numbers Mean (Chart)?
Making Sense of Your Cholesterol Count*
Type of Fat
Bad
Better
Desirable
Total Blood Cholesterol 240 mg/dL** and above needs evaluation of HDL and LDL levels 200-239 is borderline high 200 and less; 150 is ideal
HDL 40 mg/dL or less 45 for men; 55 for women 60 or more
LDL 190 mg/dL or more considered very high; 160-189 considered high 130-159 is borderline high 100-129 is nearly the best; under 100 is ideal
Triglycerides 500 mg/dL or more is very high; 200-499 is considered high 150-199 is borderline high Under 150 is normal
*From the revised guidelines ATP III, National Institutes of Health **mg/dL means milligrams per deciliter of blood
How Do I Lower My Cholesterol Through Exercise?
Regular aerobic exercise helps lower cholesterol levels as well as control high blood pressure, diabetes, and body weight. While most health organizations recommend 30 minutes a day of some type of exercise, the bottom line is that more is probably better, but some is still better than none.
Many people get their exercise at work performing manual labor but may not have much aerobic exercise. Exercise comes in many forms and keeping the body moving is an important part of maintaining physical conditioning as well as good bone density, muscle flexibility, and joint function. Many people get their exercise at work performing manual labor but may not have much aerobic exercise.
Bad Bugs and Their Bites
Sex Drive Killers
Cancerous Tumors
Multiple Sclerosis
Adult Skin Problems
Habits That Wreck Your Teeth
Manage Diabetes in 10 Minutes
Erectile Dysfunction
Type 2 Diabetes Warning Signs
Health Benefits of Sex
Scalp, Hair and Nails
ADHD Symptoms in Children?
How Much Exercise Do I Need?
Walking 2 miles in 30 minutes 3 times a week constitutes a moderate level of aerobic exercise. That may be enough to raise your HDL cholesterol by 1 to 3 points (higher is better) and lower your LDL cholesterol (lower is better).
If you can't get in a 30-minute block of exercise all at once, do a few minutes of exercise here and there throughout the day (climb the stairs at work, walk around the block on your lunch break, park and walk). Researchers have demonstrated that exercise even without weight loss can have a positive impact on improving cholesterol levels. It is the amount of activity, and not necessarily any changes in fitness or intensity of exercise that is important for cholesterol improvement and decreasing the risk factors for heart disease and stroke.
Is There a Diet to Lower Cholesterol?
Share Your Story
Diet and other lifestyle changes affect your blood cholesterol levels. Changing daily habits may prevent the need to take medication to control cholesterol levels, if no other risk factors for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) are present. Cholesterol-lowering medications are available, but they should be used in addition to and not as a substitute for exercise, dietary changes, avoiding smoking, and controlling blood pressure and blood sugar levels. Lifestyle changes should be employed first and continued for a lifetime to manage cholesterol levels.
Diets high in saturated fat are linked to high total blood cholesterol levels and pose an increased risk for heart disease and other vascular diseases. Simply put, reduce all fats in your diet, paying particular attention to saturated fats.
The American Heart Association suggests that fats should represent no more than 30% of total calories you consume in a day, but 25% or 20% is even better. Most of the fats in the diet should be unsaturated.
Decide how many total calories you need a day to maintain your desired weight. As a rule of thumb, you multiply your desired weight in pounds by 11, if your life is sedentary; 13 if moderately active; and 15 if active. The total gives you your recommended daily calorie count.
Determine how many grams of fat you should eat in a day (see chart). Don't get distracted by trying to measure the grams of saturated and unsaturated fat (this information is on food labels). Simply focus on total grams of fat.
Grams of Fat Allowed Per Day
Daily Calorie Intake
Grams of Fat Using Guide of 20% of Calories from Fat Per day
1200 27
1300 29
1400 31
1500 33
1600 36
1700 38
1800 40
1900 42
2000 44
2100 47
2200 49
2300 51
2400 53
2500 56
2600 58
2700 60
2800 62
2900 64
3000 67
Certain foods really do have health benefits for controlling cholesterol and overall heart health beyond providing basic nutrition. The Department of Health and Human Services identifies these food choices.
Broccoli: benefits heart health, blood pressure, cholesterol, cancer
Fish or fish oil benefits heart health, blood pressure, cholesterol
Green leafy vegetables benefit heart health, blood pressure, cholesterol, cancer
Oranges or orange juice benefit heart health, blood pressure, cholesterol, cancer
Carrots benefit heart health, blood pressure, cholesterol, cancer
Garlic benefits heart health
Fiber benefits heart health
Oats/oat bran/oatmeal benefits heart health
Cholesterol Levels Slideshow
Lower Cholesterol Slideshow
High Cholesterol Quiz
What Foods Lower High Cholesterol Levels?
Lower cholesterol levels should start at the grocery store. Read food labels and buy foods low in saturated fat and low in cholesterol (cholesterol itself is found in some foods, and this type of cholesterol is different from blood cholesterol). If possible, try to include fresh fruits and vegetables in every grocery shopping trip.
To help you know what to look for when grocery shopping, use this shopping list from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute:
Breads such as whole wheat, rye, pumpernickel, or white
Soft tortillas, corn or whole wheat
Hot and cold cereals except granola or muesli
Rice (white, brown, wild, basmati, or jasmine)
Grains (bulgur, couscous, quinoa, barley, hominy, millet)
Fruits: Any fresh, canned, dried, or frozen without added sugar
Vegetables: Any fresh, frozen, or (low salt) canned without cream or cheese sauce
Fresh or frozen juices, without added sugar
Fat-free or 1% milk
Cheese (with 3 grams of fat or less per serving)
Low fat or nonfat yogurt
Lean cuts of meat (eye of round beef, top round, sirloin, pork tenderloin)
Lean or extra lean ground beef
Chicken or turkey, white or light meat (remove skin)
Fish (most white meat fish is very low in fat, saturated fat, and cholesterol)
Tuna, light meat canned in water
Peanut butter, reduced fat
Eggs, egg whites, egg substitutes
Low-fat cookies or angel food cake
Low fat frozen yogurt, sorbet, sherbet
Popcorn without butter or oil, pretzels, baked tortilla chips
Nuts such as walnuts, pecans, and macadamia nuts
Margarine (soft, diet, tub, or liquid)
Vegetable oil (canola, olive, corn, peanut, sunflower)
Non-stick cooking spray
Sparkling water, tea, lemonade
The Mediterranean Diet for Heart Health
The Mediterranean diet lets you eat rich-tasting foods such as roasted sweet potatoes, hummus, and lima bean spread. Greek meals are often small, easily assembled plates called mezzes. For your own serve-it-cold casual meal, you could put out plates of cheese, olives, and nuts.
Click for more Mediterranean diet foods and recipes »
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
From
Cholesterol Resources
Slideshow: 15 Sneaky Sodium Foods
Bacon: How Bad Is It?
8 Tasty Heart-Healthy Ideas
Featured Centers
How Is Your MS Care Routine? Assess Yourself
11 Things Not to Do If You Want to get Pregnant
Reviewed on 2/19/2019
Sources:
Medically reviewed by Robert J. Bryg, MD; Board Certification in Cardiovascular Disease/Internal Medicine REFERENCES:
American Heart Association. "What Your Cholesterol Levels Mean." Updated: Aug 17, 2016.
<http://www.americanheart.org/presenter.jhtml?identifier=183>
health.gov. "Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2015-2020; Eigth Edition."
<https://health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/guidelines/>
Patient Comments & Reviews
Cholesterol Management - Changes in Your Lifestyle
What lifestyle changes have been successful at lowering your cholesterol?
Post
Cholesterol Management - Diet
How do you manage your cholesterol through your diet?
Post
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR RELATED ARTICLE
Featured Slideshows
ADHD in ChildrenBetter Parenting
Atrial Fibrillation (AFib)Heart Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment
Breast Cancer Symptoms, Diagnosis and Treatment
First Aid & Emergencies Topics A-Z Slideshows Images Quizzes Medications About Us Privacy Terms of Use Advertising Policy Site Map Contact Us
WebMD Medscape Reference Medscape MedicineNet RxList OnHealth WebMDRx
©2019 WebMD, Inc. All rights reserved.
eMedicineHealth does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See Additional Information.