The Irony of “Selfies” Surgery. Cell Phone Radiation Exposure and “Rapid Aging Syndrome”
Contact Us
Support Us
Contributors
Resources
Reading List
Survival
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
RSS
Alternative News & Independent Views
Home
Economy
Liberty
War
Activism
Health
Technology
Environment
Video
Podcasts
Hot Topics
April 22, 2019 | “It Should Be Illegal”: Use of Facial Recognition at Airports Draws Anger
April 22, 2019 | Federal Research Says Screens Harm Kids’ Brains. 60+ Experts Featured at Free Online Workshop about “Digital Dementia”
April 22, 2019 | Wireless Technology: Ultra Convenient. But Not for Survival.
April 22, 2019 | US-Russia Tensions Are Escalating Because of Collusion Fever
April 22, 2019 | US Police Refuse to Stop Creating Fake Profiles on Facebook
Search for:
Home Health
The Irony of “Selfies” Surgery: Cell Phone Radiation Exposure and “Rapid Aging Syndrome”
TOPICS:BN FrankCell PhoneEMFRadiation
February 10, 2018
By B.N. Frank
What a drag it is getting old…
It’s hard enough losing our youthful idealism and vitality. Looking old can be the kiss of death in in personal relationships as well as in the job market.
Technology can be very beneficial. However, it has also made it so that every teensy imperfection in our physical appearance is obvious – if not magnified – in digital photos.
One current solution to help us look better in photos is “Selfies Surgery.”
The irony of the “Selfies Surgery” is that
All new wireless technology emits Wireless (WiFi) Radiation: Cell phones, Wi-Fi routers, utility “Smart” Meters, etc
Wireless (WiFi) Radiation is Microwave Radiation – like what cooks food in a microwave oven.
Many people hold their cell phones next to their faces– thus blasting their faces with microwave radiation – like what cooks food in a microwave oven.
Manuals for cell phones include instructions that state DO NOT hold or carry cell phones directly next to face and body.
Most would agree that illness – regardless of the source – tends to age us faster. When we are exposed to Wireless (WiFi) Radiation, we absorb it. Decades of research has proven this can be harmful to our health.
In regard to exposure to Wireless (WiFi) Radiation and other sources of Electrical Pollution (Electrosmog), Dr. Magda Havas has named this process “Rapid Aging Syndrome.”
Illness
Pain
Difficulty Sleeping
can be caused or increased by exposure or to Wireless (WiFi) radiation and other sources of Electrical Pollution (Electrosmog).
Everyone I know who has experienced chronic illness, chronic pain, and difficulty sleeping literally looks “worse for the wear.”
Here is a 15-minute video with Dr. Havas where she explains “Rapid Aging Syndrome” in detail:
Here’s a 2-minute video with Dr. Havas where she explains it in brief:
We are constantly warned about sun exposure. We are not constantly warned about Wireless (WiFi) Radiation exposure. But we have been warned:
In regard to cell phones, since 2009, America’s favorite doctor, Dr. Oz, has offered guidelines and encouraged us to exercise caution when using cell phones. This includes NOT holding them too close to our faces and bodies.
In 2009, Dr. Magda Havas produced a 8-minute video comparing cell phones to cigarettes.
In 2010, GQ Magazine also compared cell phones to cigarettes.
In 2011, The World Health Organization classified all sources of Wireless (WiFi) Radiation as a “Group 2B Possible Carcinogen”
Some scientists believe there is enough research that proves it should be classified as a Group A Carcinogen.
According to many scientists, U.S. federal safety standards and guidelines are outdated and inaccurate in regard to electronic and wireless products (here and here).
“Safety” testing on these products is done on plastic mannequin heads and bodies instead of humans, animals, or any live tissue. Plastic mannequin heads don’t worry about how they look in selfies.
Recently CBS News posted on their website: “8 Dumb Things to Boost Possible Cancer Risk”
According to CBS News, you are being dumb if you:
Sleep with a cell phone
Carry cell phone too close to body
Encourage kids to use cell phones
Go cellular when the signal is weak
Keep the keypad turned away
Have a cellular gabfest
Fail to switch sides (of your face where you hold your phone)
Forget about texting (and opt to use phone to make calls instead)
Even if none of this concerns you – studies have found that cell phones are 10 times dirtier than a toilet seat.
Imagine what that’s doing to your complexion.
“Selfies” have become a part of our culture. The more “Selfies” we take using our cell phones, the more we are exposing ourselves to wireless “microwave” radiation – even though our arms are extended to take “Selfie” pictures.
The great news is that we don’t need cell phones to take selfies or any other kinds of pictures and videos. There are digital cameras available that do not have wireless (microwave) technology installed in them. Eight years ago, I bought one from a popular drugstore chain for about $70. It still works really well.
Many of us can’t afford “Selfies Surgery” and avoid medical procedures like the plague.
Many of us also don’t like:
Illness
Pain
Difficulty Sleeping
It’s difficult enough trying to “grow old gracefully.”
Additional related links:
Quarterback Tom Brady’s Holistic Lifestyle Includes No Electronics in the Bedroom. Supermodel Wife Doesn’t Allow Cell Phones Near the Bed
https://www.activistpost.com/2018/01/quarterback-tom-bradys-holistic-lifestyle-includes-no-electronics-bedroom-supermodel-wife-doesnt-allow-cell-phones-near-bed.html
Avoiding The Eye - Ships Free Today!
If Wireless Radiation Exposure Is No Big Deal, Why Do Manuals for Cell Phones, iPads, Wi-Fi Routers, Etc. Include Guidelines and Warnings?
https://www.activistpost.com/2018/02/wireless-radiation-exposure-no-big-deal-manuals-cell-phones-ipads-wi-fi-routers-etc-include-guidelines-warnings.html
CBS News Posts 8 Dumb Ways to Boost Possible Cancer Risk. Experts Still Not in Complete Agreement.
https://www.activistpost.com/2018/01/cbs-news-posts-8-dumb-ways-to-boost-possible-cancer-risk-experts-still-not-in-complete-agreement.html
Research Results Don’t Change Fact That Silicon Valley Parents Have Already Limited Their Own Children’s Exposure to Wireless Radiation Tech
https://www.activistpost.com/2018/02/research-results-dont-change-fact-silicon-valley-parents-limited-childrens-exposure-cell-phones-wireless-radiation-tech-many-years.html
Whose Research Is It Anyway? Meet One Scientist Who Gets Paid to Defend Both Tobacco and Wireless Products
https://www.activistpost.com/2018/02/whose-research-anyway-meet-one-scientist-gets-paid-defend-tobacco-wireless-products.html
Your Pets May Be Affected by WiFi and Electronic Devices Even if You Aren’t.
https://www.activistpost.com/2017/12/pets-may-affected-wi-fi-electronic-devices-even-arent.html
NBCNews.com:- “Is Electrosmog Harming Our Health?”
http://www.nbcnews.com/id/34509513/ns/health-cancer/t/electrosmog-harming-our-health/
Paleo Magazine: “Electrical Pollution In Your Home: Why You Can’t Be Healthy In A Sick House”
https://alisonmain.me/2017/10/01/electrical-pollution/
Dear Cell Phone Radiation Warning Naysayers, MeThinks Thou Protests Too Much
https://www.activistpost.com/2018/01/dear-cell-phone-radiation-warning-naysayers-methinks-thou-protests-much.html
“Popular Science” Magazine Still Blows Off Cell Phone Radiation Warnings Despite Reports From The World Health Organization, Dr. Oz, Stephen Colbert and Others
https://www.activistpost.com/2018/01/popular-science-magazine-still-blows-off-cell-phone-radiation-despite-warnings-world-health-organization-dr-oz-stephen-colbert.html
Firefighters Don’t Want Cell Towers Near Their Stations, But 50+ Federal Bills Allow Cell Towers In Residential Yards and Pretty Much Everywhere Else
https://www.activistpost.com/2017/12/5g-federal-bills.html
The American Cancer Society claimed “Smart” Meters could increase cancer risk – in 2014.
https://www.naturalblaze.com/2017/11/american-cancer-society-claimed-smart-meters-increase-cancer-risk-2014.html
Most Don’t Question “Sensitivity” To Air Pollution But Still Question “Sensitivity” To Electrical Pollution
https://www.activistpost.com/2018/01/dont-question-sensitivity-air-pollution-still-question-sensitivity-electrical-pollution.html
Another Article Dismisses ElectroHyperSensitivity (EHS) Without Mentioning that EHS is the Same Thing as “Microwave Sickness” Discovered in the 1950s
https://www.activistpost.com/2018/01/another-article-dismisses-electromagnetichypersensitivity-ehs-without-mentioning-ehs-thing-microwave-sickness-discovered-1950s.html
Free ebook How To Survive the Job Automation Apocalypse
Free ebook How To Get Started with Bitcoin: Quick and Easy Beginner’s Guide
Activist Post Daily Newsletter
Email address:
Yes - I consent to receive emails
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Subscription is FREE and CONFIDENTIAL
Free Report: How To Survive The Job Automation Apocalypse with subscription
Share64
Tweet
+1
Pin
Previous post
Next post
2 Comments on "The Irony of “Selfies” Surgery: Cell Phone Radiation Exposure and “Rapid Aging Syndrome”"
gwen | February 11, 2018 at 7:16 am | Reply
They wish to reduce the commoner to a babbling idiot with their wi-fi, chemtrails, vaccines, gmo, fluoride, chlorine, other toxins found in furniture for instance, and perpetual wars.
Dr. Oz is certainly not my favorite doc.
Dr. Catherine J. Frompovich is.
WEREFEAT 106. | February 11, 2018 at 8:53 am | Reply
What is meant by ” keep the keypad turned away ” ?
Leave a comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Daily Newsletter
Email address:
Yes - I consent to receive emails
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Subscription is FREE and CONFIDENTIAL
Follow Us on Facebook
Activist Post
Must See Videos
April 22, 2019
“It Should Be Illegal”: Use of Facial Recognition at Airports Draws Anger
April 22, 2019
Federal Research Says Screens Harm Kids’ Brains. 60+ Experts Featured at Free Online Workshop about “Digital Dementia”
April 22, 2019
The Perversion Of Wikipedia: Skepticism As A Tool For The Censorship Of New Ideas
April 22, 2019
Microwaving National Treasures: Grand Tetons Considers The Largest Cell Tower Expansion in History
April 22, 2019
“IF Truth Be Told About Vaccines” Anthology HHS-CDC-FDA Propagandize Big Pharma’s Pseudoscience Into Medical ‘Truths’
Most Viewed Articles of the Week
FDA Approves Low-Level Electrical Pulse Forehead… April 20, 2019
Venezuela Is Out of Food: Here’s What an… February 14, 2016
Google’s Sensorvault Can Tell Police Where… April 19, 2019
Multiple Investigations Reveal Secrets About Where… April 19, 2019
Chase Bank CLOSES ACCOUNTS of Political Activists… April 19, 2019
Tweets by ActivistPost
Affiliate Links
Grow Your Wealth Outside the Rigged System
Cryptocurrency Investing and Bitcoin News
Get $10 In Bitcoin for Free
Check out Activist Post's Polls on LockerDome on LockerDome
Home
Economy
Liberty
War
Activism
Health
Technology
Environment
Video
Podcasts
Latest News
“It Should Be Illegal”: Use of Facial Recognition at Airports Draws Anger
Federal Research Says Screens Harm Kids’ Brains. 60+ Experts Featured at Free Online Workshop about “Digital Dementia”
Wireless Technology: Ultra Convenient. But Not for Survival.
US-Russia Tensions Are Escalating Because of Collusion Fever
US Police Refuse to Stop Creating Fake Profiles on Facebook
The Perversion Of Wikipedia: Skepticism As A Tool For The Censorship Of New Ideas
Contact Us
Support Us
Contributors
Resources
Reading List
Survival
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Resources
Reading List
Privacy Policy
Activist Post | Creative Commons 2019
Share64
Tweet
+1
Pin