April | 2018 | Needlin' To Be Normal
Skip to content
Needlin' To Be Normal
Home
About
Blog
Think Zebra!
Contact
Month: April 2018
Posted
April 18, 2018
Category
Tummy Troubles
Tags
Constipation, Food Allergies, Gastroparesis, IBS, Nausea, TummyDrops
Comments
3 Responses
My Top Ten Tips for Tummy Troubles
Intestinal cramps, gas pain, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, indigestion, heart burn, bloating… The list of ways your digestive system can cause you discomfort goes on and on and on, and pretty much everybody suffers under an unhappy digestive system at one point or another. As one who has racked up some serious frequent flier miles at the GI’s office over the last few years, I have learned a lot of insider tricks that I wish I would have known from the start–they would have saved me some serious misery. So here’s to hoping I can at least help some of you when the occasional (or not so occasional) digestive woes hit.
Ginger, Ginger, Ginger!
Not that kind of ginger Ron, don’t worry
A couple of years ago I sustained some serious nerve damage in my digestive track from an infection that left me with “mild” gastroparesis and constant, crushing nausea amongst other things. I found ginger seriously helps with the nausea. Fresh ginger is best–I like to heat up water and put some cut up ginger in it. Let it soak, add a little honey and then sip til your tummy is happy again. Ginger Ale is also good, but make sure you get the kind with real ginger in it. You can also get ginger “candy”–I like Gin Gins Ginger Chews–but those are pretty spicy so I wouldn’t use them when your stomach is seriously upset. They are awesome for motion sickness though. Really ginger is just all around a life saver when that sick feeling hits your stomach.
2. Peppermint Oil
Guess what else happens when you have nerve damage to your digestive track–cramps! Horrible, wrenching, gut-twisting cramps that leave you gasping in agony. Seriously, some of the worst pain I have ever experienced was from intestinal cramps. Luckily I eventually found peppermint oil, and we are very happy together. Nothing–no prescription or OTC meds–cut the cramps like peppermint oil does. It also helps with relieving gas, nausea and diarrhea. When I start getting that tugging feeling in my intestines I rub 3-5 drops of peppermint oil into my entire stomach area, moving my hand in a clockwise circle. Every essential oil I have ever bought says not to apply it directly to the skin, but to use a carrier like coconut oil–I have never not ignored that and so far I have lived. If you have super sensitive skin though, you might want to heed their warning and try it with a carrier oil first.
3. Probiotics
This is an especially important one if you ever find yourself needing a course of antibiotics; before I learned about probiotics I would get really bad diarrhea whenever I was on antibiotics (which was almost constantly before I got diagnosed with PI). This is because antibiotics, in addition to killing the bad, infection-causing bacteria, wipe out the good bacteria in your intestines. Probiotics help replenish these good bacteria so you can digest your food properly. Even outside of antibiotic use, probiotics are helpful for promoting proper digestion and boosting your immune system–70-80% of which is in your gut. I take a probiotic supplement everyday, and if I’m on antibiotics I double or triple my normal dose. Unfortunately probiotics can be pricey, but you don’t need the crazy expensive kind to see benefits–just be wary of super cheap supplements with a low cell count and only one type of organism. I stick with middle of the road supplements like Accuflora and Phillip’s Colon Health. Supplement this with probiotic rich Kefir and/or Kombucha and you’ll be on your way to a happy gut! Kefir probably wins out in functional probiotic content, but Kombucha has the added benefits of digestive enzymes. So I use a mix of both. (My favorite Kombucha is GT’s btw).
4. Fennel Oil
Fennel oil is great for relieving gas. Apply to the abdomen in the same way as the peppermint oil and fart away! You’ll feel so much better- let it go!
5. Yoga
Yoga can help digestion in a lot of ways, but I especially use it when I’m constipated, bloated or gassy. Type “yoga for digestion” into the youtube search bar and you’ll have tons of digestive friendly routines to choose from at a variety of difficulty levels. My go-to is Yoga with Adriene–she has several digestive/detox flows that help me every time! There are also some specific positions that can be utilized on their own to provide quick relief–like the figure-four stretch to relieve gas quick.
6. High-Calorie Shake for Gastroparesis and Gaining Weight
For my gastroparesis buddies or people who need to gain weight here’s my top-secret (not really) shake recipe that I survived on for eight months when my stomach couldn’t handle solid food:
1 banana
1 Ensure/Boost (high calorie kind)
1 serving of favorite protein/nutrition powder (I like Orgain and VegaOne)
Several scoops of soy or coconut ice cream (or regular if you can tolerate it)
About a tablespoon of sunflower seed butter (could use peanut/almond butter)
Blend together and enjoy. Of course, I always used chocolate flavored everything, but you can use any flavor you like I suppose.
7. Apple Cider Vinegar
ACV is great for indigestion, heart burn and a sour stomach. It’s really important that you get the organic/all natural kind with the mother–it’s way more effective. The taste is pretty potent, so I always mix it (1-2 tablespoons of ACV) with a glass of water (heated), some lemon juice and a generous amount of honey. Sometimes I add fresh ginger for an extra kick of stomach-calming power.
8. Miralax
When you have to reach for a laxative, Miralax is your best bet. It’s not painful or habit forming like other laxatives because it doesn’t stimulate your colon to contract, it just draws water into it to make everything flow easier. A trick I’ve recently learned is that, especially if you’re like me and have to take Miralax on a regular basis, it’s best to take it at night. When I took it in the morning I had to take double the normal dose to make things flow normally that day; now I take a normal dose at night and things always run smoothly the next morning. So essentially you can half the dose you need when you take it at night, because it gives it more time to work. Also don’t pay for the name brand if there’s a generic–they’re the exact same thing but you pay extra for the “Miralax” on the bottle.
9. Allergy Friendly Foods I Love
Whether you have actual allergies or intolerances, eating the wrong foods can bring on a lot of bodily distress. I have a long list of foods that I avoid–some allergies, some intolerances. Here are some of my favorite allergy/sensitivity friendly items:
Enjoy Life Chocolate Chips: The only completely dairy and soy free chocolate I’ve been able to find (also gluten-free and nut-free)
Sneaky Chef No-Nut Butter: This stuff is seriously awesome. It tastes like a nut butter, but it’s made from golden peas! No nuts, soy, or seeds!
Luna Bars: If soy is a no-no for you then so are these, but they do have a couple totally nut free varieties (with 8 grams of protein)
Kind Breakfast Bars and Healthy Grains: Also have some totally nut free varieties that are also gluten and soy free.
Cheerios: Almost all types of Cheerios are now gluten-free! Mmmm tastes like childhood!
Annie’s GF Bunny Cookies: Gluten-free, not crazy high on the sugar or fat content, and delicious! These are my newest addiction.
10. Tummy Drops
Click on pic for link to tummy drops at Amazon
I saved the best for last. I first tried tummy drops a couple years ago and they’ve saved my tummy many a time. I always keep both ginger and peppermint tummy drops on hand–some at home, some in the book bag, some in the purse–wherever I go, they go with me. They were created by two doctors–one a GI specialist, one an avid cook–so they taste good, but more importantly THEY WORK. Ginger tummy drops are wonderful for nausea and motion sickness; they work better than anything short of prescription anti-nausea meds. The peppermint kind are powerful against intestinal cramps, urgency, bloating and a mildly upset stomach. They’re great as a tag-team with peppermint oil application or for when you’re in a situation where you can’t exactly lift up your shirt and start rubbing oil all over it. Sticking a drop in your mouth is a tad more discreet.
So there you go. My top ten tips for tummies are now yours to try!
Posted
April 15, 2018
Category
Uncategorized
Comments
0 Responses
ADHD and Me?…Wait What?
So I haven’t written in a while. My bad. But let’s skip ahead because big things are afoot.
Well actually we have to skip backward first technically–to January.
Over Christmas break I made a resolution: to start seeing our school counselor this semester. I recognized that my anxiety has been really limiting me and overall making life much harder than it needs to be. I further recognized that I wasn’t doing everything I could to deal with it. Here I am at college where counseling is offered for free by a super awesome support staff–and I wasn’t taking advantage. So I resolved to change that.
It’s one of the harder things I’ve ever done–definitely not something I was super comfortable with. Or am for that matter. But I got started and that was the hardest part. And I’m SO GRATEFUL I did.
See I went to get help for anxiety, but it turns out most of the symptoms I, my family, and other medical professionals have attributed to an anxiety disorder my whole life are not actually, well, anxiety. Not at the core at least. Actually I have ADHD.
Like this but a child
Admittedly, when Dr. K first brought it up I was SUPER skeptical. All I knew about ADHD was encapsulated in the stereotypical image of a little boy bouncing off of walls, which is essentially the opposite of me in every way. But since then I have learned that there is a type of ADHD–predominantly inattentive type–that presents without hyperactivity (or at least any hyperactivity is internalized). The more I found out about this type of ADHD, sometimes called ADD, the more the lightbulbs went off. But still I was skeptical.
Finally last week I got started on medicine to treat ADHD and holy cow. I couldn’t believe it. I still almost can’t–I’ve never had a medicine work so well, so quickly and with so few bad side effects. From the very first day I’ve felt so much better! I feel much more calm–less anxious, less constantly overwhelmed; I’ve been sleeping better than I have since I was a little kid; I’ve felt more like interacting with people and less stuck in my own head; my migraines have been better; I can focus better and more consistently; I don’t have to fidget so much… I could go on, but you get the picture.
It’s like putting on glasses.
Or like the fire that’s been burning in my brain my whole life has finally been put out.
My brain without medication
It’s so freeing.
It does so much more than just help me with my schoolwork. I finally feel like myself–like the me that I know has been inside somewhere but has always been locked away.
So I guess the moral of this story is, if you’re having a hard time with your mental/emotional health, suck it up and go get help. Yes, it’s hard and kinda scary. But it could change your life!
Archives
February 2019
November 2018
September 2018
August 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
December 2016
My Zebra Stats 2018
Days on Antibiotics: 73
Infections: 6
Infusions: 29
ER Trips: 1
Doctor’s Appointments: 10
Social
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
Google+
WordPress.org
Tumblr
Other PI Blogs
Through Accepting Limits
Zebra Life Blog
Let’s Feel Better
Categories
ADHD
Chronic Illness
Doctors, Doctors, Doctors
Migraines
Pain
PI
Tummy Troubles
Uncategorized
Archives
February 2019
November 2018
September 2018
August 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
December 2016
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Follow
Follow Needlin' To Be Normal on WordPress.com
Instagram
A Day in the Life of this Zebra #newblogpost #thezebralife #auntyniece
Ransacking aunty's room together! #cousins #aunty'sroomiscoolest
It'll Pass #newblogpost #primaryimmunodeficiency #chronicillness #pain #anneofgreengables
Trolls, Molds and Woman Colds #newblogpost #denial #colds
Starting off School PI Style #newblogpost #thezebralife #primaryimmunodeficiency #iginfusionsforlife
The Chocolate Chest Theory (link in bio) #newblogpost #livingwithchronicillness #understanding #primaryimmunodeficiency
Tags
Aetna Allergy Shots Allergy Testing Annoying Doctors Anxiety Books BubbleBoy Chocolate Love Chronic Illness Chronic Migraine College Life College with Chronic Illness Constipation D-dimer Dads Dermatology Diagnosis Endurance En Medias Res ER Visit Escape EverythingEverything Food Allergies Fro Yo Gallbladder Surgery Gallstones Gammagard Gamunex Gastroparesis Good Things Grief Happy Birthday JK Rowling Harry Potter HIDA Scan High School Hope I'm an adult I swear IBS IDF Ig Infusions IGinfusions Insurance Struggles IVIG lack of control Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy making plans Medical Mystery Medication Side-Effects Migraines Missing Moving Forward Nausea No Moms Allowed Pain Peptic Ulcers Primary Immunodeficiency PrimaryImmunodeficiency Pulmonary Embolism Real Scars SCID SCIG Sensitivity Training Shave Biopsy Sinus Infections Skin Biopsy Strength Surgery The Spoon Theory The Zebra Life Topomax TummyDrops unpredictability whooping cough Zebra Probs
Powered by WordPress.com.
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Post to
Cancel