American Cancer Society & Sodium Bicarbonate
0
Articles
Medical Articles
Magnesium »
Sodium Bicarbonate »
Cancer »
Diabetes »
Hydrogen Medicine »
Light and Heat »
All Medical Articles »
Need special Help? Get a consultation »
Protocol
Books
Consultations
About
Videos
FAQ & Contact
More
Consultations
About
Videos
FAQ & Contact
Join 90,000 others
in my newsletter and
get a free ebook!
Subscribe to Dr. Sircus's newsletter and receive for free an ebook and introductory articles that will guide you through his protocol and the medicinals that compose it.
HOME › MEDICINE › Cancer
American Cancer Society & Sodium Bicarbonate
Published on February 6, 2013
share on
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print this
Pinterest
7:05am on February 6th, 2013 8:40pm on December 10th, 2016
On the American Cancer Society’s site you will read, “Sodium bicarbonate, also known as baking soda, is promoted by some alternative practitioners as cancer treatment. This treatment is based on the theory that cancer is caused by a form of yeast infection and that sodium bicarbonate can kill the yeast. This claim is not supported by science or clinical evidence and is contrary to widely accepted basic facts of oncology and microbiology. Sodium bicarbonate is used as a conventional treatment for disorders in which the blood is too acidic. It is also used as an over-the-counter remedy for heartburn.”
The American Cancer Society obviously pays too much attention to the thoughts of Dr. Tullio Simoncini and not enough to basic medical science that insists that the pharmacology of sodium bicarbonate (simple baking soda) is one of providing rapid pH changes in fluids and tissues. The American Cancer Society needs to update its website to reflect the most recent science that tells us that sodium bicarbonate is an ideal cancer treatment because cancer and tumor growth are pH sensitive.
Even though something as simple as baking soda can cure cancer, we are not supposed to say that or even think it without the threat of FDA marines flying in through the windows. Saying that sodium bicarbonate treats cancer and should be used by every cancer patient is something the International Medical Veritas Association (IMVA) has been saying for years. Recent research now backs that assertion.
For everyone who chooses highly toxic and dangerous chemotherapy that is administered with sodium bicarbonate, please be advised that science is indicating that it might be the sodium bicarbonate (used to buffer the toxicity of the chemo chemicals so the chemo does not burn you alive on the spot) that’s doing the helping and not the poisons.
When medical historians get through writing about 20th century medicine they will surely come to the conclusion that the story of chemotherapy would have been a lot worse if sodium bicarbonate was not already in wide use for cancer patients taking chemotherapy.
Wouldn’t it be sickening to think that patients had to take a pile of poison just to get their simple, inexpensive and safe bicarbonate treatments?
Healing with Hydrogen! You are just about to discover how brilliant, safe and effective modern medicine can be. Get Started
Learn how to treat yourself and your loved ones safely at home With powerful medicinals
Learn Dr Sircus protocol including dosages, methods, side effects and contra-indications. This bundle includes the Sodium Bicarbonate and Natural Oncology eBooks.
get yours
Mark Sircus Dr. Sircus
Dr. Mark Sircus AC., OMD, DM (P)
Director International Medical Veritas Association
Doctor of Oriental and Pastoral Medicine
On Facebook On Youtube
Join 90,000 others
in my newsletter and
get a free ebook!
Subscribe to Dr. Sircus's newsletter and receive for free an ebook and introductory articles that will guide you through his protocol and the medicinals that compose it.
comments
For questions pertaining to your own personal health issues or for specific dosing of Dr. Sircus's protocol items please seek a consultation or visit our knowledge base to see if your question may have been answered previously.
scroll up
Join 90,000 others in my newsletter and get a free ebook!
Subscribe to Dr. Sircus's newsletter and receive for free an ebook and introductory articles that will guide you through his protocol and the medicinals that compose it.
My Account Articles Protocol About Dr. Sircus Consultations Books FAQ Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms
Magnesium Transdermal PH Medicine Iodine Medical Marijuana Oxygen Therapy Hydrogen Medicine Water Medicine Seed Nutrition Light and Heat Medicine
Legal notice: The Author specifically invokes the First Amendment rights of freedom of speech and of the press without prejudice. The information you will receive with our consultations is for informational purposes only under the rights guaranteed by the First Amendment of the Constitution for the United States of America, and should not in any way be used as a substitute for the advice of a physician or other licensed health care practitioner. The statements contained on my sites and in my books have not been evaluated by the FDA. The products discussed are not intended to diagnose, cure, prevent or treat any disease but are proven useful for health and life extension. We always recommend when and wherever possible that licensed local healthcare professionals be consulted.