January « 2018 « Marketing Strategy
Marketing Strategy
Home
RSS
Monthly Archives: January 2018
Testing For Inherited Colon Cancer
Posted on January 13, 2018 by blue
Comments off
Inherited colon cancer is an issue that both men and women need to be concerned about. Since this type of cancer is part of the DNA coding there is nothing you can do prevent the fact that you may have it. However, you can get tested for inherited colon cancer and therefore your doctor can help you prevent it from affecting your lifestyle.
Even though inherited colon cancer is still a major ailment in or society, the number of deaths from it continue to drop due to various types of testing that have been implemented over the past 15 years. Early screenings at annual check ups can identify any development of polyps. The removal of them will prevent colon cancer from starting and from spreading.
Once polyps have been discovered on an individual, they will be scheduled for regular follow up appointments. These may be every three months, six months, or annually depending on the family history of inherited colon cancer and the amount of polyps that were discovered. Those with high cholesterol are also at a greater risk of inherited colon cancer. Getting tested for that can help to detect factors that can be controlled as everyone can choose to reduce the amount of fatty foods they consume.
Testing for diabetes is common for those with inherited colon cancer as well. Statistics show that individuals with diabetes are 1/3 more likely to be diagnosed with inherited colon cancer. Effective treatment of their diabetes can help to offset the development of the colon cancer.
There are different types of screenings that a person can have completed in order to be tested for inherited colon cancer. A fecal blood test can be done annually when the individual goes in for a regular check up. There is a flexible sigmoidoscopy that can be conducted every five years. A full colonoscopy only has to be done once every ten years. Your doctor can tell you what tests they recommend you engage in based on your family history, your current health issues, and your age.
Inherited colon cancer is an issue you really need to be concerned with it there is any family history of it at all. It is ranked as the third highest form of cancer diagnosed in the United States. It is the second largest cause of cancer related deaths in the United States as well. While it does affect slightly more males than females both sexes need to be aware of their family history. If this isn’t possible then early testing should be part of preventative measures.
More than one million people in the United States have been diagnosed with inherited colon cancer and are survivors. Due to the progressing of testing for it and aggressive treatment options early diagnosis definitely has contributed to their ability to beat the odds. It can take up to ten years from the first signs of inherited colon cancer being recognized to a person developing incurable cancer that will spread and result in their death.
Categories: Uncategorized
Colon Cancer Affects Men and Women Equally
Posted on January 10, 2018 by blue
Comments off
Most cases of colon cancer begin as small, noncancerous (benign) clumps of cells called adenomatous polyps. Cancerous tumors found in the colon or rectum also may spread to other parts of the body. Cancer of the colon and rectum (colorectal cancer) is a malignant tumor arising from the inner wall of the large intestine. If signs and symptoms of colon cancer do appear, they may include changes in bowel habits, blood in your stool, persistent cramping, gas or abdominal pain. Since colon cancer can grow for years without causing any symptoms, it’s best to get regular colon cancer screenings.
Almost all men and women age 50 and older should have a colon cancer screening. Screening tests can help prevent colorectal cancer by finding pre-cancerous polyps so they can be removed before they turn into cancer. For normal risk individuals, screening tests begin at age 50 and the preferred approach is a screening colonoscopy every 10 years; an alternate strategy consists of annual stool test for blood and a flexible sigmoidoscopic exam every 3 to 5 years.
Special screening programs are used for those with a family history of colorectal cancer. Colonoscopic surveillance (also called screening colonoscopy) needs to be available at more frequent intervals for individuals at high risk for colon cancer (for instance, those with a personal history of colorectal cancer or adenomatous polyps; family history of colorectal cancer; non-hereditary polyposis; colorectal cancer; or a pre-disposing condition such as inflammatory bowel disease. Since your genes cannot be changed, if there is a family history of colon polyps or cancer, a colonoscopy should be performed to remove the polyps before they become malignant.
In the area of prevention, researchers are looking at the effects of curcumin (found in curry), resveratrol (found in red wine), ginger and the Mediterranean diet on the growth and development of colon cancer. Recent research suggests that a high fiber, low-fat diet plays a role in prevention; how great a role it plays is unclear. Although the exact cause of colorectal cancer is not known, it is possible to prevent many colon cancers through: diet and exercise. It is important to manage the risk factors you can control, such as diet and exercise.
A detox program, in most cases shall include a mental shift in attitude towards diet, improving nutrition, removing toxins, returning the desired flora in your internal system, maintaining a balanced pH level in the body and improving the overall mind and body relationship. Diet plays an important role in preventing the development of colon cancer. Diets high in fat and low in fruits and vegetables, such as those that include red meat, fried foods and high-fat dairy products, may increase the risk of colorectal cancer.
A body cleanse diet, is a diet that aims to clean and remove harmful toxins from your body. A well known detox diet for your body is the increasingly popular lemon detox diet, which incorporates a number of ingredients and requires you to consume a drink of these ingredients once everymorning, then drinking water with a hint of lemon juice throughout theday. Generally, a healthy and safe detox diet will not require you to starve yourself, and it contains highly nutritious food that can help to boost your metabolism.
While you are doing your colon cleanse, make sure you are getting plenty of sleep and exercise. Exercise is believed to reduce the risk of colon cancer. Light exercise is also a good way of getting the blood circulating in your body. Gentle, no-impact exercise safe and beneficial for people of all ages. There are tons of exercise programs and plans out there, or just walkingfor at least 12-15 minutes a day is beneficial to the colon function.
Detoxification is an efficient process of removing toxins from the body. The bodies natural detoxification system had simply not evolved to deal with the future man made pollutants that were to come. With the increase of toxins within the environment and foods we eat, it is not surprising that the majority of people are at a level of toxicity that is past the point that the bodies own natural detoxification system can cope with. Regular detoxification will help avoid serious problems and keep you feeling better, both mentally and physically. Detoxification kits may be bought from health food stores, or a qualified practitioner or natural physician can recommend detox products.
Categories: Uncategorized
A Healthy Colon Is Imperative For Keeping The Body Healthy And Detoxified
Posted on January 7, 2018 by blue
Comments off
With today’s active life style’s and less than adequate eating habits a healthy colon is imperative for keeping the body healthy and detoxified.
Part of the reason so many Americans have an unhealthy colon is the lack of fiber benefits to their diet. Having a healthy colon is the key to long term health and finding good colon healthy recipes is one way to help keep your body healthy. Constipation, digestive distress, and mucous in your stools are just a few signs that your colon might not be completely healthy, and a healthy colon is absolutely necessary for a healthy body.
Don’t let an unhealthy colon become a breeding ground for toxic poisons, parasites, disease and death. Colon therapy can also help rid the body of
parasites without a need for the heavy drugs usually prescribed to treat them. There are a number of colon cleansing products on the market today
that will cleanse the colon as well as expel parasites.
Diets of saturated fats, meats, sugars and processed foods contribute to impacted feces along the inside of the colon wall. However, eating a diet with insufficient fiber is like cleansing dishes without a sponge. A healthy diet full of fiber and probiotics (good bacteria and yeast),
plenty of rest and water, and regular exercise keeps your colon healthy. The problem is that no one who eats a “normal” diet is able to escape
the gradual formation of caked deposits and build-ups on the lining of the colon. Many people might be amazed and disgusted at what actually comes
out of an average “healthy” person during a colonic treatment.
If you want to prevent colon toxicity, chronic disease and premature aging, cleansing your colon is essential. Colon cleansing is the best defense
against colon toxicity developing, as well as maintaining a healthy diet and active lifestyle. Take charge of this important bodily function: Get
started cleaning your colon today. There are several products that we believe work very well for getting and keeping a clean and healthy colon and digestive tract. A colon cleansing can actually assist in weight loss as well, in fact some have reported up to a twenty five (25) pound loss almost over night.
A normal healthy colon is the cornerstone of a sound nutritional program assuring normal assimilation of nutritional supplements as well as dietary
food nutrients. A healthy colon is truly essential to one’s overall health, especially when you consider that literally everything you eat ends up in your bowels as toxins. One of the most important things you can do to keep a healthy colon is to cleanse your body of toxins, pollutants and impacted fecal matter. The recommended amount of fiber everyone needs to maintain a healthy colon is generally between 20 and 35 grams of fiber a day.
We place significant importance on the products we use to brush our teeth, wash our hair, and cleanse our bodies. Find out as much information as possible, and speak to people who have actually used colon cleansing products and services. The elimination of undigested food and other waste products are as important as the proper digest and assimilation of food stuffs. Psyllium husk and bentonite clay based herbal colon cleansing products are safe and we recommend them as part of your overall getting healthy plan.
Categories: Uncategorized
Staging Colon Cancer
Posted on January 4, 2018 by blue
Comments off
When a doctor wants to evaluate the progress of colon cancer of one of his patients he or she uses a method called Staging. This method is about finding out to what extent the tumor (colon cancer) has spread to the other regions of the patients body. Once the doctors figured out in what stage the colon cancer is, they will develop the best course of action or treatment.
At this point in time the system that is most commonly used for the staging process of colon cancer is called the American Joint Committee on Cancer’s (AJCC) TNM staging system. Simply put this system used for staging places the patients into one of four stages.
Stage 0
Stage 0 also known as carcinoma in situ or colorectal cancer. In this stage the colon cancer has been detected in the innermost lining of the colon.
Stage I
In this stage the colon cancer has already begun to spread. But the cancer is still in the inner lining of the rectum or colon. In this stage the colon cancer has not reached the outer walls of the colon yet. Stage I is also known as Duke A or colorectal cancer.
Stage II
In this stage the colon cancer spread more deeply into or through the colon or rectum. Possibly the colon cancer may have affected other tissue as well. In this stage the colon cancer hasn’t reached the Lymph nodes (bean-sized structures which can be found in the entire body that helps the body fight all kinds of infections and diseases. Stage II is also known as Duke B or colorectal cancer.
Stage III
When you are in this stage the colon cancer has now spread to the Lymph nodes although it hasn’t spread to nearby parts of the body. Stage III is also known as Duke C or colorectal cancer.
Stage IV
In this stage the colon cancer has spread through the Lymph node system to other nearby tissue. This is most commonly called metastasis. The organs that most likely are affected are the lungs and liver. Stage IV is also known as Duke D or colorectal cancer.
Recurrent Colon Cancer or Cancerous Cells
When doctors talk about recurrent colon cancer they mean that cancerous cells that have already been treated have returned. These cancerous cells could possibly have returned as colorectal cancer but they might as well return in any other part of the body too.
Categories: Uncategorized
Colon Cancer and Colon Cancer Prevention
Posted on January 2, 2018 by blue
Comments off
The colon is one of the most important organs in the body. It’s intended purpose is to return water and nutrients into our bodies and help us eliminate waste. American diets are low in fiber and digestive enzymes. This causes the body produce digestive enzymes at the expense of immune system enzymes.
The low level of fiber prevents the colon from cleaning itself and causes a buildup of toxic matter in the colon. The buildup of toxic matter in the colon can lead to many health problems, the most serious of which is colon cancer. The weakened immune system is unable to fight the disease.
Colon cleansing helps the body rid itself of toxic matter. This in turn allows the colon to aid in the digestive process and allows the production of immune system enzymes to return to normal.
There are several ways to cleanse your colon. One is hydrotherapy, where a small disposable plastic hose is used to irrigate the colon. A licensed professional must perform this procedure. Similarly, enemas are often thought to cleanse the colon, but they have been shown to only clean the bottom portion and rectum.
Herbal supplements are often used in colon cleansing as well. A plant product called psyllium is most usually the base of these treatments. The psyllium’s fiber expands when it comes in contact with water, and the bulky material causes the bowel to contract and expel waste.
There are also oxygen based cleaners that turn the waste into liquid or gas and help it to be expelled.
Another way is to do juice fasting. Juice fasting gives the entire digestive system a much needed rest and for optimal functioning to take place once again after the break.
In a nutshell, colon cancer can be preventable. If you find yourself having meals that are low in fiber, try doing a colon cleanse. A clean colon will mean a healthy colon and a better immune system for your body.
Categories: Uncategorized
Recent Posts
Hello world!
Testing For Inherited Colon Cancer
Colon Cancer Affects Men and Women Equally
A Healthy Colon Is Imperative For Keeping The Body Healthy And Detoxified
Staging Colon Cancer
Recent Comments
Archives
February 2019
January 2018
December 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
Categories
Uncategorized
© Marketing Strategy.
Copyright 2019 Marketing Strategy - Thanks For Wardpress