Foods To Reduce Cholesterol - Lower Cholesterol With Super Foods
Skip to content
Main Menu
Home
Links
Menu Toggle
Top Product Comparison
Posts By Category
FAQ
Contact Us
Top Product Comparison
Top Product Comparison
Foods To Reduce Cholesterol
Table of Contents
1 Best Foods To Reduce Your Cholesterol
1.1 About Cholesterol
2 Low Cholesterol Diet Food List
3 Monounsaturated and Polyunsaturated Fats
4 Foods that Lower Cholesterol
5 Foods For Lower Cholesterol
6 Low and high Cholesterol food
6.1 About Good and Bad Cholesterol
6.2 Where can you find this Trans Fats?
6.3 Where can you find this good cholesterol Fats?
7 What Foods Lower Cholesterol
7.1 Low Fat Low Cholesterol Diet
7.2 Low Cholesterol Diet Recipes
7.3 Lowering Cholesterol Without Medication
7.4 Food That Lowers Cholesterol
Best Foods To Reduce Your Cholesterol
Most persons are conscious that meals large in saturated fats will increase cholesterol levels, even so the wonderful information is the actuality that there are quantity of heart-friendly meals that possess the opposite effect. An analyzes released inside the American diary of Clinical eating routine demonstrated that the diet plan filled with cholesterol lowering meals can, in various cases, be as efficient as cholesterol medication.
Some of those meals provide soluble fibre which eliminates cholesterol prior to it obtains to the blood stream. Other people improve ranges of wholesome fats which reduce LDL, and some include plant sterols and stanols which avoid the absorption of cholesterol.
About Cholesterol
Cholesterol is typically a fatty substance created inside the liver from saturated fats inside the meals we eat as well a good deal cholesterol inside the our blood can improve your probabilities of coronary centre disease.
Cholesterol arrives in two forms; Low density lipoproteins (LDL) which hold cholesterol from your liver for the tissue inside the system which include the arteries and large density. This may be the ‘bad’ cholesterol.
High density lipoproteins (HDL) which hold unwanted cholesterol back again for the liver. This really is referred to as ‘good’ cholesterol.
Low Cholesterol Diet Food List
There have been a lot of people who have wanted to know what the dishes, meals are and food that they can eat that can help them regulate and lower their cholesterol levels. The different kinds of food provide different function and so it is not recommended to stick to one source of cholesterol lowering drugs. It is best to have a balance and laid out plan to ensure that the nutrients, fats and other elements that the food can provide will nourish and protect your arteries.
Some foods are dedicated to strengthen the blood vessels. Stronger blood vessels will reduce the cases of high blood pressure and inflammation in the arteries.
Other foods are meant to stabilize the sugar in the blood lowering the chances of diabetes and softening clumps of fat to the clotting of the blood. And of course, there are those foods that are meant for lowering cholesterols or simply obstruct cholesterol digestion.
Each of these types are important and can greatly lower down, if not prevent and even cure possible heart ailments and strokes be it hemorrhagic or ischemic.
Of the list we have compiled a number of foods that could be used.
Monounsaturated and Polyunsaturated Fats
Coming in the form of Olive oil, Canola and peanut oil, we can also derive these substances on Peanuts, olives and avocadoes. These fats are good for preventing oxidation which leads to inflammation. Inflammation is one of the causes for heart diseases and strokes. Some studies are concluding that Inflammation can be a cause more badly than high cholesterols.
With that, it is important to minimize and prevent inflammation. If inflammation is out of the picture, you don’t have to worry about cholesterol levels theoretically speaking. Apart from that, most monounsaturated fats and polyunsaturated fats can reduce your LDL cholesterol level and can go even up to 18% of reducing your cholesterol level compared to others who are on a diet involving saturated fat. Here is a few of the substances along with their benefits.
Olive Oil
Rich in both vitamin E and has monounsaturated fats. This lowers down the bad cholesterols (LDL) and increase the amount of HDL or the good cholesterol. Adding this to salads with around one or two tablespoons can make noticeable results in weeks. Margarine made from olive oils are also great sources of this.
Fresh Fruits and Vegetables
This one’s a no-brainer. Rich in vitamins, minerals, fibre and a lot more, fruits and vegetables are natural products that can keep our blood pressure low and lower down cholesterols. From the citrus compilations to the leafy green fibres, you can never go wrong by going vegan. Be sure to limit intake however. Recent studies have shown that high sugar in the blood could be a cause for strokes and heart ailments instead of cholesterol. In most cases, it’s best to go with vegetables. Let’s go over some fruits and vegetables.
Apples
In particular have both soluble and insoluble fibres which can prevent cholesterol absorption. The flavonoids in the apples have powerful antioxidants which can prevent inflammation caused by the accumulation of LDL. Its nutrients prevent our arteries from hardening thus protecting us from possible heart attacks and stroke. As they say, an apple a day keeps the doctor away.
Avocados
These are rich in unsaturated fats which then augment the level of high density proteins thus lowering the risk for stroke, heart ailments and diabetes. The higher the amount of good cholesterols (high density lipoprotein) is one good counter measure instead of avoiding the LDL (low density lipoprotein) or the bad cholesterol; Avocados contain a rich amount of this.
Blueberries
They are rich with pterostilbene. Pterostilbene is a compound which is known to cut down cholesterol. They are also antioxidants which can cut down inflammation cases and even high blood pressure.
Broccoli
Plentiful in soluble fibre and eating just a bit can do wonders. Better start doing what your mom tells you and finishes those broccolis.
Grapes
Grapes have flavonoid just like apples. Apart from being flavones, it also can reduce the clumping of platelet which can help against stroke, high blood pressure and even heart ailments. If platelets clot and clump up, the heart will have a hard time pumping the soggy blood that flows through your veins. Hence it is essential to void this. High blood pressure and most stroke and heart ailments have these cases.
Garlic
Garlic contains a chemical known as the allicin. This kills bacteria and fungi and can protect us from certain digestive disorders. This also lowers the blood clotting properties of our blood. Consuming up to half a clove of raw garlic a day can lower cholesterol levels by 9-12%.
Fruits and vegetables with Lycopene is also a fruit/veggie ingredient that needs to have its place on a salad. Lycopene is the pigment which is responsible for giving fruits and veggies the red colours. Such found in tomatoes, watermelon and even red peppers.
Though studies are inconclusive of the results of it lowering cholesterol (in a range of 0% to 17%) lycopene is generally recommended for its good functions in the heart. From anti oxidizing properties to even strengthening the arteries, lycopene fruits and vegetables are a great ingredients which you can sauté.
Strawberries
Strawberries are great antioxidants for lowering the chances that the LDL will oxidize causing inflammation.
Legumes
Carry high fibre content as well as many other protective minerals. Vitamin B and phyto-nutrients are among them. They are naturally low on fat and contain no cholesterols. Beans are excellent source of soluble fibre and high in vegetable proteins.
Bran (oatmeal)
Oat bran proved to be also effective in lowering LDL cholesterol level. Oatmeal contains soluble fibre which reduces the absorption process of cholesterols to put it in your blood streams. An easy way to put it is that you won’t have to worry about high cholesterol levels since cholesterols won’t be absorbed. With that, this meal is an ideal day starter or the first to be taken or eaten. The level could go from a 7% reduction all the way to a 14% reduction. Eating oatmeal every morning and taking in brown rice can help lower the LDL.
Soy
Soy beans contain isoflavones and soluble fibre. Isoflavones acts in the body like human hormones that lower the bad cholesterol levels (LDL) while raising the good cholesterol. (HDL) These double purpose hormones then can protect you and provide effective results to your cholesterol control. All soy products have these. From beans to buts, tofu, soy milk and other related products. Tofus in particular have had a noticeable result to lowering cholesterols. To illustrate, 50g of soy protein can already reduce LDL levels by 13 percent.
Cinnamon
The Diabetes Care organization found that a half a teaspoon of cinnamon can reduce the blood sugar level of a person. Since it can decrease sugar levels, it can also reduce the triglyceride level of a person along with the LDL. It also reduces the overall level of the cholesterol. Sugar levels are one of the causes of the many stroke and heart related diseases.
If Cinnamon can lower down your sugar and glucose levels in the body, constant intake of this will be helpful. Just recently, a study concluded that we should only be eating 150 calories of sugar for men and 100 for women. The reality is that we go over three times that amount thanks to the preservatives, sugar added fats and carbohydrates we take in. Lowering sugar levels can be a key ingredient to lowering the risk of heart and stroke related complications.
Fish (omega-3 fatty acids)
The famous omega-3 fatty acids are well known for its capability to reduce blood pressure and even the risk of your blood clotting. Of all the fatty acids present, we know that the omega-3 fatty acids are the best and most effective fatty acids which can help us. The best way to make the most of your fish dishes if by baking the fish or grilling it to avoid adding unhealthy fats.
Salmon
This is one of the richest omega-3 fish. The American Heart Association recommends eating at least two servings of fish every week. Tuna contains a lot of omega-3 fatty acids which can cut down LDL and triglycerides. Be sure to purchase tuna from sustainable sources.
Walnuts, Pistachios, Other Nuts And Seeds
There have been a lot of studies reporting the reduction in cholesterol due to nuts. The polyunsaturated fatty acids are the one who keeps the blood vessels flexible and healthy. Walnuts can greatly lower cholesterol level especially if the amount of fats taken from these nuts replaces the cholesterol fat taken from other foods.
Pistachios on the other hand are loaded with an antioxidant known as selenium. This can prevent coronary artery disease. Here are some other nuts.
Almonds
Almonds are also great cholesterol lowering food. Studies have proven that taking almonds can lower down cholesterol. This is due to the plant sterols that are abundant in these nuts. But due to the high calorie content of almonds, it is only recommended that you eat a cup or fewer servings.
Hazelnuts
Have monounsaturated fats which protect us against coronary heart disease (CHD) and reduce LDL levels.
Ground Flax Seeds Ground Flax seeds are great if you want to lower down your cholesterol Good sources for cholesterol fighting substances. Taking up to 50 grams of flax seed seem to have sown reduction in the LDL area from 8-14%. Those who suffered from hypercholesterolemia were given this seeds and the study resulted to a 14% decrease in cholesterol level. Both colours of flax seeds regardless if they are brown or green are nutritious.
Whole Barley
Use this as a substitute for wheat products and you can start enjoying benefits of this. This reduces cholesterol level by around 7-10%. Note that wheat products are high carbohydrate meals. Carbohydrates once digested into our bodies are first broken down to sugar in the form of “glucose.” Glucose is the first substance that our bodies burn before they use fat. But if glucose isn’t burned right away, it eventually becomes fat. So going for whole wheat does lower cholesterol levels and do have lesser carbohydrate level. But too much intake can cause a rise in your blood sugar levels. Avoid this if you’re sugar level is already high.
Dark Chocolate and Plant Sterols
Cocoa and plant sterols in a dark non-milk chocolate have been noted to reduce the level of cholesterol by 2-5%. This is due to the physosterols found in it which inhibits the digestion or absorption of cholesterols. Be careful of the calorie content in chocolates though. Also the sugar level is one thing to consider. This can be helpful in lowering cholesterol but too much will create an increase in your blood sugar levels which as seen in recent studies are just as bad.
Green Tea
This long staple delight in East Asia has been believed to have washed the oil out of the body. The studies around this prove that this belief is indeed true. It can lower cholesterol levels by 2-5% and is a great drink with its low calorie value. This makes it an ideal drink to accompany for snacks and even proper meals.
Foods that Lower Cholesterol
A complete blood test with lipoprotein analysis gives your doctor information about the two types of cholesterol in the body. As you may or may not be aware, the two types of cholesterol in the body are LDL and HDL. LDL is the bad cholesterol that is delivered to the bloodstream. HDL is the good cholesterol that is taken away from the bloodstream.
Too much LDL and too little HDL can both be bad for the body as it puts one at risk of heart disease. You can eat foods that lower cholesterol to reduce your cholesterol level and possibly maintain it. Most doctors recommend eating high fibre foods that lower cholesterol, as they tend to help breakdown and expel cholesterol from the body.
There are a number of different factors that contribute to high cholesterol such as your genetics, eating habits, exercising habits and even smoking. The great thing is that, if you’re motivated, you can eat foods that lower cholesterol and help keep your LDL cholesterol numbers low. However, don’t just rely on the foods that help lower cholesterol, as you should be exercising on a regular basis. Regular physical exercise has been known to boost your HDL cholesterol.
The following are a few foods that lower cholesterol in those with high cholesterol levels.
Oats
Oats is one of the best foods to lower cholesterol levels in the body, especially due to its high fibre content. When having oats in the morning, you should add in a few flaxseeds as well.
Walnuts/Almonds
Provided you are not allergic to these nuts, you should have a handful daily. They help boost the good cholesterol in the body and can help lower overall cholesterol levels.
Garlic
Include garlic in the meals you prepare, as it is very good for lowering cholesterol levels. There are numerous garlic teas available which have been known to reduce cholesterol numbers for people with high LDL levels.
Soy
Soy protein is incredibly good for the health of your heart, and overtime you will notice your cholesterol numbers lower. Foods with soy protein include tofu, soya meat and soy milk.
Fruits/Vegetables
Fruits and vegetables are natural foods that lower cholesterol which also come with a range of other vitamins and healthy minerals. When eating fruits, you shouldn’t peel the skin, as the skin provides added fibre content.
Whole Grain Foods
Whole grain foods are one of the best foods that lower cholesterol, as they contain lots of fibre content. White flour foods are the more common choices people go for, but they are not as healthy as whole grain foods.
High cholesterol also has a lot to do with the snacks and treats you indulge in sometimes. Avoid foods with saturated fats, trans fats and high sugar content. These foods can increase the LDL cholesterol in the body, resulting in high cholesterol in the short-term.
When preparing meals using foods that lower cholesterol, you should keep in mind that the cooking method makes a significant difference as well. Avoid cooking with margarine, butter and refrain from frying foods. Instead cook foods that lower cholesterol with olive oil and choose to boil, broil or roast the food.
If you need help with lowering your cholesterol, consider trying clinical trials that offer drugs to help manage your cholesterol.
Foods For Lower Cholesterol
Cholesterol is something that everyone has in their body. Your liver and other areas of your body produce it. However, it is important to have the right amount otherwise you could develop heart disease as will also have a higher risk of diabetes. Small changes in your daily diet could save you from having to take medication to keep your cholesterol levels in check. These changes only require that you change the kinds of foods that you eat everyday as well as getting regular exercise.
Fish is one the best things that you can eat when you are trying to lower your cholesterol levels. The omega-3 fatty acids in fish will help immensely in lowering your cholesterol. Nuts and oatmeal, oat bran and most cereals will also help in lowering your cholesterol. Only have a small amount of nuts per day though and make sure that they are unsalted and not covered in sugar. Otherwise you will just be compounding your problems. Oatmeal, oat bran, cereal, apples, bananas and other fruits and vegetables are high in soluble fibre which will really help in lowering your overall levels of cholesterol.
Avoid products that contain a large amount of trans fat and saturated fats. Trans fat foods are absolutely terrible for your body when you are trying to lower your cholesterol levels, because the high amounts of trans fat raise your LDL or bad cholesterol while lowering the HDL or good cholesterol levels in your body. The reason I mentioned low-cholesterol medications above is that if your cholesterol levels get too high, you will have no choice but to take these medications in order to control your skyrocketing cholesterol levels.
The good news is that you can avoid having to take these medications if you can make these simple changes in your daily habits. Many benefits are afforded to you for not having to take cholesterol lowering medications. First of all it is much cheaper to buy healthy foods rather than expensive cholesterol-lowering medications.
Another huge benefit is that you won’t have to deal with the side effects that a lot of people can’t deal with which is common with cholesterol-lowering medications. I think the biggest benefit of all is the satisfaction of having lowered your cholesterol naturally and all by yourself. You don’t need for expensive medications or operations for a heart attack or stroke.
Practice these steps in moderation, and make sure to eat a variety of different foods every day. Take care of yourself and exercise regularly. Exercise is another great tool for lowering your cholesterol as well as your weight at the same time. People who are overweight are at higher risk of heart disease and diabetes as well as other health problems.
Excess weight increases the bad cholesterol or LDL in your body thus raising your cholesterol levels. Getting about thirty minutes of exercise should do wonders for your cholesterol levels, because losing weight helps to lower triglycerides and raises the HDL or good cholesterol levels in your body. If you have diabetes poor control of that could also raise cholesterol levels.
Stress plagues all of us every once in a while. Some people have huge amounts of stress. Stress is not good for your body; it raises your blood pressure and can cause you to get shingles and cause other health problems as well.
One of the reasons that is important to relieve yourself of stress is that it controls your habits. Some people under a large amount of stress will indulge themselves in very fatty food in order to cope with the stress. Many other individuals console themselves with other unhealthy things when they are under heavy stress. These habits can have drastic impacts on their cholesterol levels and their health.
So eat healthy, avoid foods with large amounts of fat, exercise regularly and control your stress levels and you should be on your way to new healthy low cholesterol you.
Low and high Cholesterol food
You know that a high cholesterol level means an increased risk for heart disease. Does this mean you should eat as little cholesterol as possible? Scientific studies have shown that there is only a weak relationship the cholesterol you eat and the cholesterol levels in your blood. But if you already have a high cholesterol level, reducing the amount of cholesterol in your diet can have a very healthy impact on your blood cholesterol level and on the risk of heart deceases.
Eggs consumption up to one a day no longer forbidden! Long forbidden for their high cholesterol content, eggs are now making a real comeback. Research has shown that your egg consumption–up to one a day–does not increase heart disease risk if you are healthy. Egg yolks have a lot of cholesterol and therefore may slightly affect the blood cholesterol level, but eggs also contain other nutrients that help lower the risk for heart disease.
If you have diabetes you should limit your egg intake to no more than two or three eggs a week, because in that case an egg a day might increase the risk for heart disease. If you have a high cholesterol level and it’s difficult to control your cholesterol level it’s better to be cautious about eating egg yolks. You better choose foods made with egg whites instead.
About Good and Bad Cholesterol
Some fats are bad because they tend to worsen your blood cholesterol level. Some fats are good because they improve your blood cholesterol level. So called Saturated Fats are bad cholesterol.
Where can you find this bad cholesterol?
1. Meat
2. Seafood
3. Whole-milk dairy products (cheese, milk, and ice cream)
4. Poultry skin
5. Egg yolks
6. Coconut and coconut oil, palm oil, and palm kernel oil
This bad cholesterol in saturated fats raises your cholesterol level more than dietary cholesterol because they tend to boost both your good HDL cholesterol and your bad LDL cholesterol. The net effect is negative. So it’s important that you limit your saturated fats.
Where can you find this Trans Fats?
In commercially prepared baked or fried foods, snack foods and processed foods like:
1. French fries
2. Onion rings
These Trans fats are even worse for the cholesterol level than saturated fats because they raise your bad LDL cholesterol level and lower your good HDL cholesterol level. So it is important that you try to eliminate trans fats from your diet.
Where can you find this good cholesterol Fats?
Good cholesterol fats can be found in this cholesterol lowering food that should be included in your low cholesterol recipe:
1. Canola, peanut, and olive oils
2. Sunflower, corn, and soybean oils
These good fats decrease your LDL cholesterol level and increase your HDL cholesterol level. So it is important that you try to put this good cholesterol in your diet.
What Foods Lower Cholesterol
Many people are looking for information on what foods lower cholesterol in order to improve their health. High cholesterol levels resulting from eating fatty junk food is a growing problem for many people. So, what foods lower cholesterol? The healthiest strategy to take first is to stop eating so much food that is highly charged with ‘bad’ LDL cholesterol. This basically means eating less red meat, butter, full fat milk and then wondering about what foods lower cholesterol.
Rather than eating foods to reduce your levels of LDL (bad cholesterol), it is better not to ingest the foods that contain LDL in the first place. Foods that contain this LDL are red meat, full-fat dairy products and hydrogenated vegetable oils. If you replace your consumption of these foods with mono-unsaturated and poly-unsaturated oils, your LDL levels should fall naturally.
However, some people might have high levels of LDL for hereditary reasons. If this is the case, you may be wondering what foods lower cholesterol. The main type of food to go for here is high fibre food like oatmeal and bran. Porridge oats is great, so is lentil soup, as are whole grain bread and pasta and brown rice.
When thinking about what foods lower cholesterol, think roughage and fibre, like oat bran, grains, walnuts, almonds and other nuts and fruits and vegetables. Then you cannot go far wrong.
Low Fat Low Cholesterol Diet
You can follow a low fat low cholesterol diet quite easily by trying to eliminate the main sources of LDL (low-density lipoprotein) from your diet. The main sources of LDL are red meat, full-fat dairy products and trans-fats (hydrogenated vegetable fats).
Therefore you should try to replace these saturated fats and trans fats with more useful mono-unsaturated and poly-unsaturated fats which can be found in oils like olive oil. However, going on a low fat low cholesterol diet is a good way to lower your cholesterol.
Low Cholesterol Diet Recipes
A myth has sprung up about some foods. Many people think that liver, eggs and prawns cannot form a part of low-cholesterol diet recipes. This is not true. Although liver, eggs and prawns do contain a certain amount of cholesterol, it is not readily absorbed by the body, so they can be part of your low-cholesterol diet recipes, if you enjoy eating them. Other items of food that ought to be the backbone of your list of foods for low cholesterol diet recipes are pulses, beans, seeds, grains, cereals, oat bran, fatty fish, vegetables and fruit.
Lowering Cholesterol Without Medication
The British Heart Foundation has recommended five ways of lowering cholesterol without medication. They say that the first thing to do is to reduce the amount of saturated fats (animal fats and trans fats) that you eat. The second way of lowering cholesterol without medication is to replace your cooking oils with olive oil and mono-unsaturated fats and poly-unsaturated fats.
The third way of lowering cholesterol without medication is to eat grains and fruits. The fourth way of lowering cholesterol without medication is maintaining a correct body weight and the fifth way of lowering cholesterol without medication is exercise.
Food That Lowers Cholesterol
There is food that lowers cholesterol. It is believed that soya bean protein will reduce cholesterol naturally and you do not need much of it. Twenty-five grams (about an ounce) of soya bean protein per day can reduce cholesterol (260-300) by 15-25%.
There are also several types of margarine and salad dressing that reduce LDL by as much as 10%. Foods that lower cholesterol naturally are nuts, soya and fatty fish. Walnuts and almonds are said to lower LDL as well.
Sumit De
Sumit De is involved in healthcare market research since 2009. He is passionate about helping people with the right information. He has written many articles on hair care along with other health care topics.
Post navigation
← Previous Post
Next Post →
Quick Links
Privacy Policy
Disclosure
Sitemap
Categories
Categories Select CategoryAdvices (11)Causes (1)Control (1)Diets (4)FAQ (13)Foods (1)Herbs (1)Natural (1)Recipes (1)Symptoms (1)Treatment (1)
Follow Us
Search The Site
Search for:
Disclaimer:
None of the statements made on www.cholesterolmedicationsguide.com have been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The advices and products mentioned on www.cholesterolmedicationsguide.com are not intended to diagnose, treat or prevent any diseases. You should consult with your doctor before using any product mentioned on www.cholesterolmedicationsguide.com.
We may receive commission or other income on certain products. However, this does not impact our reviews and comparisons mentioned on www.cholesterolmedicationsguide.com. We try our best to keep things fair and balanced, in order to help you make the best choice for you.
Any and all trademarks, logos, brand names and service marks displayed on www.cholesterolmedicationsguide.com are the registered or unregistered trademarks of their respective owners.
Copyright © 2019 Cholesterol Medications Guide
Share via
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Mix
Email
Print
Copy Link
CopyCopied
Powered by Social Snap
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
More Networks