Found at Last: the Chimps that Gave AIDS to the World | AIDS Origins
Skip to main content
AIDS Origins
Edward Hooper's site on the Origin of AIDS
Search form
Search
Home
Biography
Glossary
People
Contact Us
Navigation
Summary of Origins Debate
Articles by Ed Hooper
Other Articles
Ed Hooper Biography
"The River"
Origins Conferences
Lincei
Royal Society
"The Origins of AIDS" Documentary
Journal Items
News Items
Contact
All Content
Search
Recent Content
An Interesting Question
Tom Curtis
"A Dog's Breakfast": Michael Worobey's New Paper Seeks to "Exonerate" Patient Zero
Wikipedia's Strange Certainty
The Origins of AIDS: A December 2015 Update
AIDSOrigins Mailings
Sign up - FREE - for our latest news!
E-mail *
Math question * 2 + 3 =
Solve this simple math problem and enter the result. E.g. for 1+3, enter 4.
Popular content
Today's:
Dr Hilary Koprowski - The Man of Many Ideas
More supportive of OPV/AIDS than of the bushmeat hypothesis. (A revised response to the recent Faria paper in Science.)
The Death of Hilary Koprowski
The Origins of AIDS: A December 2015 Update
Polio Vaccines and the Origin of AIDS
All time:
The Origins of the AIDS Pandemic
More supportive of OPV/AIDS than of the bushmeat hypothesis. (A revised response to the recent Faria paper in Science.)
The Death of Hilary Koprowski
Hilary Koprowski: NY Times Obituary
Origins of AIDS Documentary - Gallery
Last viewed:
Contaminated Polio Vaccine Theory Not Refuted
A Startling 19,000-Word Thesis on the Origin of AIDS
"A Strange Case of Certainty", by Robert Dildine.
Is AIDS Man-Made?
Tissue Wars
Found at Last: the Chimps that Gave AIDS to the World
Submitted by admin on Fri, 26/05/2006 - 12:08pm
Printer-friendly version
Section:
News Items
The Times (London)
Researchers have traced the origin of HIV -the virus that causes Aids -to chimpanzees in southern Cameroon.
A virus identified in apes living in forests south of the Sanaga River is the closestfound to the human immunodeficiency virus.
The discovery bolsters the standard theory that the Aids epidemic began after an ape version of HIV crossed into people, most likely infecting a bushmeat hunter first.
Some conspiracy theorists have suggested that the virus was created in a bioweapons laboratory.
Another controversial hypothesis, advanced by the journalist Edward Hooper, holds that the epidemic began with a batch of contaminated polio vaccine in what is now the Democratic Republic of Congo. Neither scenario fits with the latest evidence.
Aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, kills more than three million people a year worldwide.
The ape version of HIV, simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), has long been considered the source of the human virus.
Chimps are by far the most likely species to have conveyed it to people. However, only a few captive animals have been identified as carrying chimp SIV (SIVcpz), leaving the wild reservoir of the virus that first infected people unknown. The possibility remained that another type of ape might have passed it on, and the location of the crossover was uncertain.
The international research team included Paul Sharp, Professor of Genetics at the University of Nottingham. Their findings are published today in the journal Science.
Trackers combed the forest floor at ten sites in Cameroon for chimp faeces, samples of which were sent for genetic analysis. This detected SIVcpz in up to 35 per cent of chimpanzees in some populations.
An evolutionary analysis of the genetic sequence of these chimp viruses has shown that it is very closely related to HIV-1.
Different chimp communities had slightly different genetic variants of SIVcpz.
Those closest to the human virus were found in southeast Cameroon.
Professor Sharp said that the work indicated that the HIV-1 virus, which causes Aids, almost certainly arose in this area in the early part of the 20th century.
"Particularly when you consider that HIV-1 probably originated more than 75 years ago, it is most unlikely that there are any viruses out there that will prove to be more closely related to the human virus," he said.
"Thus, the initial jump of a virus from a chimpanzee to a human probably occurred in that region."
As well as solving the mystery of the origin of the virus, the findings prepare the way for future work exploring the history and behaviour of the simian form of HIV in its natural host.
SIVcpz does not cause an Aids-like illness among chimpanzees, despite its similarity to the human virus and the very close genetic relationship between chimps and humans. Finding out why this is so could ultimately help scientists to understand the workings of HIV. Professor Sharp said: "We are currently working to understand which genetic differences between SIVcpz and HIV-1 evolved as a response to the species jump."
Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited