Exercise As A Way To Reduce Cholesterol
Home | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Permissions & Licenses | Link to Us | Advertise With Us | Our Mission | Contact Us
Must Read: Cholesterol Breakthrough Protocol | Cholesterol Levels | Cholesterol: Diet to Follow | Why Testing Cholesterol Levels Isn’t Enough?
↑ Advertisement Above ↑
Pledge to END CHILDHOOD HUNGER
Exercise As A Way To Reduce Cholesterol
Cholesterol is a wax like substance which is produced naturally by the body’s liver, in order to help in the creation of Vitamin D, a vital nutrient required by our body. Cholesterol should not be taken lightly, as too much of it can lead to massive heart problems, and ultimately death, if not moderated and reduced. Although cholesterol is naturally created by our livers, it is not enough to do us any harm. The excess cholesterol which we consume through the foods we eat is the type which is considered the ‘killer’, and should be consumed in moderation, if not at all! This life threatening cholesterol can be found in your typical fast foods, and other greasy foods such as fries, bacon and burgers. Admittedly, these types of foods do taste great, and we all love a treat every now and then, but when you consider the effects which these foods can have on your body, is it really worth it?
Nobody is perfect, and as mentioned before, we all love to indulge in some of those ‘bad’ foods which can send our cholesterol levels through the roof, but once your blood vessels have been introduced to this waxy mess, it doesn’t have to stay there! Disregarding the expensive supplements, and the time consuming doctor’s office visits, there is a very simple way to help reduce the amount of cholesterol in your body. This very simple way is called exercise!
You hear it everywhere. On the news, from your parents, from the back of your favorite magazine. Regular exercise is the key to maintaining a healthy, long-lived life, and the reason you do hear it everywhere is because it is true. As well as the other countless numbers of benefits, exercise is also a proven way to help reduce cholesterol levels in your body. Whether you are a mother of 4 children, or a single college student, exercise should be at the top of your daily to-do-list.
So, How Exactly Does Exercise Help Reduce Your Levels of Cholesterol?
So, how exactly does exercise help reduce your levels of cholesterol? To keep this simple, there are 2 types of cholesterol in our body and the foods we eat. One is good, and one is bad. LDL (Low-Density Lipoproteins) is the bad type. These are the fatty acids which clog up your artery’s and cause those unwanted problems, including low energy levels, and heart disease. HDL (High-Density Lipoproteins) is the good type, which are encouraged to be consumed by our doctors and health professionals, as these fatty acids are responsible for breaking down LDL cholesterol, and removing it from our blood stream, making our blood vessels cleaner, our circulation smoother, and our chances of heart disease lower. Now, when we exercise, our body naturally creates more and more HDL, which, from what you have just learned, is responsible for getting rid of that unwanted HDL. The more exercise you do, the more effective your body will become at breaking down the ‘bad’ cholesterol, and turning it into the good one. It is that simple!
Not everybody is a lover of exercise, and not everybody has the time to devise a regular exercise regime, let alone have the energy to carry it out, that is why many people end up with high-cholesterol, or overweight, because they believe that exercise is hard and time consuming. It is recommended that everybody partakes in at least 30 minutes of exercise every day, in order to stay healthy and fit. 30 minutes may seem like a long time, but if you break down the time into smaller fractions, let’s say 3 x 10 minute sessions, then it suddenly becomes more manageable. The exercise you do does not have to be a long distance run, or a 1000 meter swim, in fact, cleaning the house, hovering the stairs and walking your children to school are all forms of exercise which you would not actually consider exercise. It is the simple things which make a difference, so instead of taking the bus to work, try walking a few stops, or instead of taking the escalators, take the stairs. These few small changes will mount up and when you consider the benefits you get from them, why would you not want to make those changes?
Obviously, for the more active people in the world, a few stair climbs and a walk to work will not suffice, so in order to make the most of your exercise regime, try and add activities such as jogging, swimming, biking and rock climbing. Exercise does not have to be boring: Try exercising with a friend in order to prevent tediousness, or mix up your regime and throw in some fun activities such as dancing or martial arts. Remember, the more you exercise, the lower your cholesterol levels will drop, so find something you enjoy doing and get to work!
Not only does regular exercise help reduce your cholesterol level; it also helps promote an overall healthier lifestyle. We all want to look good, whether it is through nicely toned abdominals, or strong looking legs, exercising will help tighten up your body and will help you get that look you have always wanted. Fat loss is a struggle for thousands of people, and a diet alone can only do so much, that is why exercise is also recommended for people looking to lose that extra bit of stubborn fat they may have, and by including just 30 minutes of aerobic activity every day, you will reach those results you want in no time. Other health benefits as a result of exercise include a stronger heart, more energy, clearer skin and more efficient organs. Who knew that exercise could be so effective?
Do not wait until your cholesterol levels are borderline dangerous to start implementing exercise into your daily regimen, as you never know when it will be too late. Take that first step as soon as possible and believe me when I say this: You will not regret it!
Advertisement
VLDL Cholesterol or Very Low Density Lipoproteins: What Are Those?
Are the Optimal Levels of Cholesterol for Children Any Different?
Dietary Supplement to Improve Cholesterol Levels
Cholesterol Levels
RECENT
Natural Ways to Lower Blood Pressure
Heart Healthy Meal Plans to Fight Heart Disease
This Is The Best Way to Detox Your Body
How to Eat to Prevent and Reverse Diabetes
Holistic Healing with Herbs and Chinese Medicine
The Risk of Niacin Overdose In Treating Cholesterol Levels
Are the Optimal Levels of Cholesterol for Children Any Different?
VLDL Cholesterol or Very Low Density Lipoproteins: What Are Those?
The Effect of High Cholesterol Levels on Eyesight
Three Diet Tips for Lowering Cholesterol
How to Lower Triglycerides
Magnesium And Cholesterol — an Overlooked Solution
Health Benefits of Almonds
Raising HDL Cholesterol is Not Enough?
Nice Cardio Workouts for Women
The Health Benefits of Green Tea
Do Coconut Water Benefits Include Lowering Cholesterol?
Statins & Side Effects: Concerns, Incidents, Warning Signs
Do Health Benefits of Garlic Really Include Lowering Cholesterol?
Nature’s Secrets for a Beautiful and Healthy Skin
How To Boost Metabolism?
Why Testing Cholesterol Levels Isn’t Enough to Detect Cardiac Risk?
CHOLESTEROL
Cholesterol: Gender Differences
Age & Cholesterol
Fasting Lipoprotein Profile
What to Do: DO’s & DON’T's When High In Cholesterol
Fiber Rich Products
Higher Risk: When High Cholesterol Runs In Family
HDL (Good) Cholesterol
LDL (Bad) Cholesterol
Triglycerides
Types of Common Medication Used for Treating High Cholesterol
Types of Fats & Their Impact on Cholesterol
Obesity & Cholesterol: Watching That Weight
Low Carb Diet to Keep Cholesterol Under Control
Fiber Rich Foods to Tackle Cholesterol
Dietary Supplement to Improve Cholesterol Levels
Cholesterol: Herbal Remedies
Cholesterol: Another Reason to Quit Smoking
Cholesterol and Children
Best Sources For Protein When High in Cholesterol
Exercise As A Way To Reduce Cholesterol
High Cholesterol Diet to Follow
The Perfect Cholesterol Ratio for an Individual
IDL and HDL Cholesterol Levels
Tips for a Low Cholesterol Diet
Types of Cholesterol Medication
What Does Good Cholesterol Mean?
Cholesterol Lowering Foods
Intermediate Density Lipoproteins (IDL) Levels
What are the Normal Cholesterol Levels?
Top 5 Low Cholesterol Foods
How to Lower Cholesterol
High Cholesterol Foods to Avoid
High Cholesterol Diet Stays in Most of Today’s Households
Our website does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Please, read our disclaimer.
LDL HDL Cholesterol Levels, Triglycerides,Total Cholesterol Levels. All rights reserved.