MMR news, articles and information:
Home About NaturalNews Contact Us Write for NaturalNews Media Info Advertise with Natural News
MMR news, articles and information:
Tweet
Pin It
The MMR vaccine-autism connection: CDC corruption exposed
5/13/2016 - It is becoming increasingly difficult to dismiss the evidence. While you won't hear about it from the mainstream media, it is becoming clear that one of the country's most trusted agencies - The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) - is involved in a cover up regarding the link between the...
The vaccine empire strikes back: Rumors swirl that Dr. Thompson has been bought off by the CDC and will submit 'reanalyzed' MMR research to destroy vaccine safety skeptics
4/25/2016 - Rumors have been swirling over the weekend that the CDC is planning a major offensive against vaccine safety skeptics due to the remarkable popularity of the VAXXED documentary film. As censorship of the film spectacularly backfired, more people became aware of the "CDC whistleblower" Dr. William Thompson,...
Fears about MMR vaccines causing brain damage are legitimate, former Chief Scientific Officer explains
4/22/2016 - A former British medical officer who was responsible for deciding if medications were safe for the general public has accused the government he used to serve of "utterly inexplicable complacency" over the triple measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine for children, the UK's Daily Mail Online reported. Dr....
MMR vaccines called one of the 'greatest scandals in medical history' by former Chief Scientific Officer of the UK's Department of Health
4/8/2016 - The former chief scientific officer for Britain's Department of Health who was responsible for deciding if medicines and vaccines were safe for use among the general public says his former employer is guilty of "utterly inexplicable complacency" regarding the mumps, measles and rubella shot. The...
Bombshell: CDC destroyed vaccine documents, congressman reveals
3/27/2016 - "...the [CDC] co-authors scheduled a meeting to destroy documents related to the [MMR vaccine] study. The remaining four co-authors all met and brought a big garbage can into the meeting room and reviewed and went through all the hard copy documents that we had thought we should discard and put them...
(Un) Informed Consent: A few things parents don't know about the measles, mumps & rubella vaccine - Part 1
3/1/2016 - I've been dismayed by the national brouhaha characterized by the Four Horsemen of Vaccine Hysteria: Fear, Anger, Blame, Hatred. (Story by Louise Kuo Habakus, republished from FearlessParent.org) The unvaccinated must be hunted down and punishedMeasles is deadlyWe need a federal mandate for the measles...
You can still get the measles even if you are immunized against the measles
1/12/2016 - Just as rapidly as it emerged, the "Disneyland measles outbreak" essentially vanished less than sixth months after it began, leaving no fatalities, but that didn't stop lawmakers (and their handlers) from using the episode as an excuse to try and implement forced vaccinations nationwide. Though not...
October 23 rally at CDC headquarters demands truth on MMR-autism coverup
10/20/2015 2:30:09 PM - If you live anywhere near Atlanta, Georgia, or can travel there on October 23, the truth community needs your help! A rally is set to take place on the public sidewalk outside the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) headquarters at 1600 Clifton Road in Atlanta, where truth seekers will...
MSM claims to support blacks but totally censors CDC scientist admission that vaccines cause autism at higher rates in black babies
9/8/2015 - The inconsistencies and lies of the mainstream media in its selective reporting on world events is nothing new to the seasoned truth-seeker. But the way the American corporate media is handling (or not) the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) whistleblower saga, including the revelation...
Soccer star gets mumps after being vaccinated with Merck's fraudulent MMR vaccine
8/26/2015 - It made international sports headlines when star Barcelona soccer player Neymar was told he would have to miss two weeks' worth of games -- including the UEFA Super Cup game -- because he had been diagnosed with the mumps. Quietly tucked away in many of the articles on the story was one rather pertinent...
Mumps outbreak strikes Illinois college students who already received TWO MMR vaccines
8/9/2015 - Dozens of students attending the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign (UIUC) have come down with the mumps virus in what authorities believe could snowball into an all-out epidemic. But once again, the vast majority of afflicted students were already twice vaccinated for mumps (MMR) prior to catching...
The MMR vaccine, autism connection
6/17/2015 - The vast majority of doctors say there is no link between the MMR shot and autism, but you can't tell that to countless parents like Aidan Quinn. The Irish actor says his daughter was healthy and perfectly normal until she received the MMR vaccine. "So we had a normal child that was walking, talking,...
A list of potential adverse reactions to the MMR vaccine - It's frightening
6/4/2015 - We are repeatedly told the MMR vaccine is both safe and effective. We are not told how safe. One look at the adverse reactions listed by the manufacturer and you can quickly dispel the myth that this vaccine is safe for everyone. This is the vaccine many parents have reported as the cause for their...
A look at the MMR vaccine ingredients
6/3/2015 - The MMR vaccine contains three different live attenuated viruses- rubivirus (measles), parotitis (mumps), and rubeola (rubella or German measles). There are many steps to manufacturing the MMR vaccine and a multitude of ingredients used in the manufacturing of the final product. The MMR vaccine...
New MMR study promoting vaccines was funded by Big Pharma
5/9/2015 - The medical-industrial complex is trotting out yet another "study" that it claims proves that vaccines, particularly the MMR vaccine, are not linked to causing autism. However, a closer look at this so-called study reveals that like virtually all of the other medical research purporting that vaccines...
Dr. Wakefield was right: The MMR vaccine-autism connection
4/7/2015 - For the past decade and change, he's been unjustly relegated to "anti-vaxxer" whipping boy status by the corrupt mainstream media. But gastroenterologist Dr. Andrew Wakefield never committed any fraud, and his study in The Lancet linking the MMR vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella to novel bowel...
MMR vaccine contains recombinant HUMAN albumin
3/27/2015 - Printed on Merck's MMR II vaccine insert[PDF]: "The growth medium for rubella is Minimum Essential Medium (MEM) [a buffered salt solution containing vitamins and amino acids and supplemented with fetal bovine serum] containing recombinant human albumin and neomycin. Sorbitol and hydrolyzed...
Dr. Andrew Wakefield reveals shocking news about MMR vaccine in the Vaccine World Summit audio series available now
3/13/2015 - If you're a parent (or soon to be), you have a moral obligation to look out for the best interests of your child. And this includes making fully informed medical decisions about vaccinations that are based on science rather than media hype and fear-mongering. But what is the truth about vaccines? Leading...
Vaccines spread measles, government documents reveals
3/9/2015 - Instead of fearing diseases like measles and succumbing to pharmaceutical company propaganda, the average person should be asking questions like: Does this vaccine lead to viral shedding? Is the vaccine I'm considering a live virus vaccine that could infect me? How does the viral shedding affect...
Medical fascism now unfolding in Michigan as judge considers forced vaccination of children taken from their family
2/27/2015 - Four children, aged 10 and under, may have MMR vaccinations forced on them in Michigan. The reports all say measles vaccinations, but single measles vaccines aren't used anymore. Merck is making multi-milllions off the MMR (measles-mumps-rubella) vaccine in the USA, while GlaxoSmithKline is making hay...
MMR vaccines actually spread measles and cause permanent immune damage, doctor warns
2/26/2015 - All the mass hysteria in the mainstream media over Disneyland measles is blinding the public to the fact that MMR, the official vaccine for this generally mild, low-risk disease, actively spreads measles. And like all other vaccines, MMR permanently damages a child's immune system, warns a prominent...
Wakefield is not a fraud - His study linking MMR vaccine to autism vindicated
2/25/2015 - Wakefield is a fraud! Wakefield is personally responsible for the resurgence of measles and whooping cough! Wakefield is to blame for the Disneyland measles outbreak! Read any pro-vaccine article that disputes the link between vaccinations and autism and chances are Andrew Wakefield and his "fraudulent...
Sign the petition to save your medical choice and protect your human rights
2/19/2015 - Who needs personal medical choice when the United States Congress has arbitrarily declared that vaccines are unequivocally safe? In complete denial of all the published data showing that vaccines can damage the brain, the gut, the blood and the immune system, congressmen from both sides of the aisle...
There is no debate: Vaccine data is largely based on research fraud and intimidation of scientists
2/19/2015 - When pro-vaccine scientists and skeptics claim that they believe what they believe because of "science," it's important to remember that much of what is assumed to be science today is actually pseudoscience for the promulgation of special interests. Concerning vaccines, it continues to come to light...
MMR vaccines contain cells from aborted human babies
2/15/2015 3:55:27 PM - The recent hysteria propagated by the dinosaur media regarding the latest measles outbreak is beyond illogical and simply based on a patchwork of lies and misinformation. News of the recent "Disneyland measles outbreak" has brought forth a sudden myriad of self-proclaimed "experts" on measles and vaccines,...
MMR measles vaccine clinical trial results FAKED by Big Pharma - shocking U.S. court documents reveal all
1/25/2015 - While the vaccine industry is exploiting the Disneyland measles outbreak to call for widespread MMR vaccination, nobody in the mainstream media is telling you how the MMR vaccine clinical trial results were faked by Big Pharma in yet another example of runaway scientific fraud by the vaccine industry. According...
CDC lies: Measles outbreaks confirmed among children already vaccinated
1/13/2015 3:24:20 PM - Maybe Mickey Mouse is responsible for spreading measles to children at Disneyland? This is a more likely hypothesis than health department claims that unvaccinated children are to blame for a recent outbreak that occurred at "the happiest place on Earth," in which 39 people -- and counting -- from at...
Vaccines don't work: Malignant mumps in MMR vaccinated children
12/1/2014 6:24:24 PM - (Story by Sayer Ji, republished GreenMedInfo.com with additional editing by Natural News.) A new study finds highly malignant mumps infections in those successfully vaccinated against the virus... A provocative new study titled, "Epidemic of complicated mumps in previously vaccinated...
Dr. Wakefield files official complaint with CDC over ongoing vaccine fraud
11/17/2014 - In a show of support for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) whistleblower Dr. William Thompson, gastroenterologist Dr. Andrew Wakefield has filed a formal complaint[PDF] with the acting director of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). In a letter dated October...
Doctor horrified at media cover-up of vaccine science fraud at the CDC
9/10/2014 - Outraged over the way the mainstream media has completely ignored the issue, board-certified family physician Dr. David Brownstein recently posted an alert for his readers warning them about the CDC's coverup of the link between the MMR vaccine and autism. After reviewing the claims of CDC whistleblower...
Massive vaccine cover-up confirmed: Secret documents prove vaccines cause autism
9/8/2014 10:56:29 AM - The ongoing debate over whether or not vaccines cause autism would probably take on an entirely different tone if key information that has been mostly censored from the public was fully brought to light. Hidden documents that have been locked away for more than two decades reveal that the MMR vaccine...
CNN caught in denial over MMR vaccines even as CDC whistleblower confesses to scientific fraud
9/4/2014 - After more than a week of total silence by the mainstream media, CNN has finally admitted that a landmark study recently published in a top scientific journal solidifies a link between the MMR vaccine and autism. But this was only after the journal that first published the study, Translational Neurodegeneration,...
Secret video from CDC bunker captures the moment propaganda ministers learned of MMR vaccine fraud confession
8/30/2014 - A secret video captured inside the CDC bunker complex in Atlanta, Georgia has captured the moment CDC propaganda ministers learned one of their own top scientists had confessed to widespread vaccine research fraud. As the world now knows, CDC scientist Dr. William Thompson has openly and publicly...
BREAKING: CDC whistleblower confesses to MMR vaccine research fraud in historic public statement
8/27/2014 - BREAKING: CDC whistleblower William Thompson has now gone public with a statement posted on the website of the law firm representing him, Morgan Verkamp LLC. (See the full statement reprinted below.) The statement opens with a blatant admission of scientific fraud at the CDC: My name is William...
MMR vaccines cause 340% increased risk of autism in African American infants
8/27/2014 - Vaccines do cause autism, and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has been lying about this fact for years, according to newly uncovered information. As it turns out, the CDC fudged some numbers in a 2003 study it conducted on the MMR vaccine that, if honestly reported, would have...
Natural News EXCLUSIVE: Bombshell email from CDC whistleblower reveals criminality of vaccine cover-up as far back as 2002
8/26/2014 - CDC scientists who conspired to commit scientific fraud in order to obscure the link between the MMR vaccine and autism knew that they might have been engaged in criminal acts as far back as 2002, documents now show. (Journalists and bloggers, please cite Natural News as the source for this investigative...
CDC whistleblower exposes massive autism cover-up perpetrated by government agency
8/25/2014 - The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has been engaged in a massive campaign of deception concerning the alleged safety of the combination measles, mumps and rubella vaccine, also known as MMR. A top-level scientist from the agency, who recently came forward as an anonymous whistleblower,...
CDC whistleblower confesses to publishing fraudulent data to obfuscate link between vaccines and autism
8/22/2014 - A medical conspiracy of epic proportions stands to bring down the entire vaccine house of cards following the revelation that the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) censored key data linking the MMR vaccine to autism. A top CDC researcher-turned-whistleblower has come forward with...
CDC refuses to turn over documents to Congress: Evidence linking MMR vaccines to autism intentionally withheld from investigators
8/21/2014 - News has been rapidly exploding across the "truth media" regarding the CDC whistleblower who is now making shocking revelations: The CDC's own research found that MMR vaccines caused autism in African-American children, and the agency knowingly buried this evidence to hide it from the public. The...
Whistleblower goes public: CDC buried data showing vaccines increase risk of autism by 340%
8/21/2014 - A top scientist and researcher for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had a key role in helping Dr. Brian Hooker of the Focus Autism Foundation uncover manipulated data from the agency that obscured a higher incidence of autism in African American boys. As reported by The Liberty Beacon,...
Vaccine bombshell: CDC whistleblower reveals cover-up linking MMR vaccines to autism in African-Americans
8/20/2014 - Natural News is currently investigating a breaking story based on a CDC whistleblower stepping forward with shocking proof of an incredible cover-up. According to information available so far, it appears the CDC knowingly engaged in a medical conspiracy to deliberately hide from the public damning evidence...
Combination vaccine doubles risk of seizures
6/22/2014 - Confirming the results of prior studies, research conducted by the University of Calgary and published in the Canadian Medical Association Journal has found that the combination MMR-chickenpox vaccine doubles the risk of febrile seizures in young children. The researchers reviewed side effect data...
Delaying routine vaccines does not increase seizure risk, but vaccinating does
6/10/2014 - You might want to sit down for this: A new study found that delaying the MMR vaccine or MMR and varicella combo vaccine (MMRV) could increase your child's risk of getting a fever-related seizure. This cohort "study" analyzed 323,247 vaccinated children to examine the association between the timing...
Father sentenced to life in prison for 'murder' after daughter dies following MMR vaccine
12/12/2013 - A U.K. father has been sentenced to life in prison after being falsely accused of murdering his own daughter, who reportedly developed mysterious head injuries just one day after receiving the high-risk measles, mumps and rubella vaccine, more commonly known as MMR. Investigative journalist Christina...
Breaking: Courts discreetly confirm MMR vaccine causes autism
9/3/2013 - You won't hear anything about it from the mainstream media, but the federal government's kangaroo "vaccine court" has once again conceded, albeit quietly, that the combination measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine does, indeed, cause autism. In a recently published ruling, part of which was censored...
Secret government documents reveal vaccines to be a total hoax
1/8/2013 - If you have children, you are more than likely already aware of the official U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) "Immunization Schedules," which today recommend an astounding 29 vaccines be given between birth and six years of age, including yearly flu shots, as well as another five...
Total assault on medical free speech as British authorities threaten vaccine-autism website over its content
8/14/2012 - A U.K. group devoted to helping parents customize appropriate vaccination schedules for their children has been targeted by British authorities for posting scientifically-backed warnings about the dangers of the combination measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine, also known as MMR. BBC News reports that...
Former Merck scientists file suit against Merck under False Claims Act
6/26/2012 - On April 27, 2012, a formal complaint was filed in the Eastern Pennsylvania Federal District Court accusing Merck of a longstanding scheme to mislead and defraud Government health authorities worldwide. Two of Merck's former employees have accused the pharmaceutical giant of marketing multivalent MMR...
MMR causes autism, proven in Italian court case
6/22/2012 - For many years the stories from devastated parents have been eerily similar. A young, bright child vaccinated with MMR, has minor side effects such as high temperature and being off food, and then develops the debilitating disability of autism. Whilst the mainstream medical profession deny the link...
MMR vaccine kills another baby in Belgium
6/14/2012 - The combination measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine, which both the U.S. government and health authorities insist is completely safe for young children, has killed yet another child in the European nation of Belgium. Christina England over at VacTruth.com reports that Xandro Sanspuer, an 18-month-old...
Doctor from MMR controversy wins High Court appeal - next up, Dr. Andrew Wakefield himself
3/15/2012 - The U.K. General Medical Council's (GMC) rash and unfounded decision to strike Professor John Walker-Smith, who had helped Dr. Andrew Wakefield in treating desperately-ill children with regressive autism symptoms and severe gastrointestinal problems, off the medical register for alleged "professional...
Institute of Medicine adverse reactions report admits MMR vaccines cause measles, seizures, anaphylaxis and other health problems
8/28/2011 - The Institute of Medicine, which has long functioned as a front group for the pharmaceutical industry and receives tens of millions of dollars in annual funding from drug companies and global elitists (like Bill Gates, Ted Turner, etc.), has issued a report that declares the MMR vaccine is not linked...
What they won't admit about measles outbreaks: Most children who catch measles were already vaccinated
8/22/2011 - Big Pharma, the CDC and other public health organizations tell the mainstream media (MSM) what to report about outbreaks and epidemics. So you may have the impression that recent measles outbreaks are occurring because of MMR (measles, mumps, rubella) vaccination refusals. According to official public...
Murdoch's media malpractice and the genetic altering of human beings through DNA vaccines
7/20/2011 - Rupert Murdoch's media empire News Corp., which represents the second largest media conglomerate in the world behind the Walt Disney Company, is taking a severe beating as Murdoch himself is having to address various criminal allegations, including that his News of the World tabloid illegally hacked...
Rival journal attacks Lancet for publishing Wakefield MMR study
2/2/2011 - Efforts to discredit and destroy the work of Dr. Andrew Wakefield, the man responsible for raising awareness about the dangers of the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) combo vaccine via the study he published in the late 1990s, continue with attacks now coming from rival medical journals. According...
Documents emerge proving Dr Andrew Wakefield innocent; BMJ and Brian Deer caught misrepresenting the facts
1/26/2011 - New documents have emerged that clear Dr Andrew Wakefield of the allegations of fraud recently made by the British Medical Journal and its reporter Brian Deer. This new evidence "completely negates the allegations that I committed scientific fraud. Brian Deer and Dr. Godlee of the British Medical Journal...
Mother wins cash payout for damage her son suffered from MMR vaccine jab
12/10/2010 - A mother whose son suffered brain damage 18 years ago from the measles, mumps, rubella (MMR) vaccine has been awarded £90,000 ($140,000) in damages. Robert Fletcher suffered his first seizure 10 days after receiving the MMR shot 18 years ago, at the age of 13 months. Epilepsy-induced brain damage...
UK Children Brainwashed into MMR Vaccine Support Through Manipulation of Academic Exams
9/25/2009 - Controversy has erupted over the revelation that a standardized test given to U.K. high-schoolers in 2008 contained a question painting a study raising concerns over the safety of the measles mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine. The General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) test is the most widely...
See all 122 MMR feature articles.
Concept-related articles:
Nutrition:
"Smart Choices" food label is marketing fraud; Tufts University involvement questioned (opinion)
Institute for Integrative Nutrition offers a new education path for health-minded adults; a conversation with founder Joshua Rosenthal
Review: The Best Tasting Green Superfood Powder Products
Doctors' woeful lack of training about nutrition dooms millions to early graves
How to slash national health care costs by 90% through education, nutrition, and a ban on junk food marketing
Public health:
Mandatory AIDS testing proposal is public health lunacy
Vaccines:
Institute of Medicine adverse reactions report admits MMR vaccines cause measles, seizures, anaphylaxis and other health problems
Immune system:
Astragalus "super herb" protects, supports immune system function
Pharmaceutical industry:
The great direct-to-consumer prescription drug advertising con: how patients and doctors alike are easily influenced to demand dangerous drugs
Merck:
Merck litigation strategy - destroy expert witnesses
FDA:
FDA Running Extortion Racket: Natural Supplement Companies Threatened with Arrest if They Don't Pay Up
Mercury:
Mercury Fillings Shattered! FDA, ADA Conspiracy to Poison Children with Toxic Mercury Fillings Exposed in Groundbreaking Lawsuit
Brain damage:
Vaccines suppress your brain! Vaccine-Induced Brain Damage Syndrome (VIBDS) mirrors cognitive impairment caused by chemotherapy (Chemo Brain)
GlaxoSmithKline:
GlaxoSmithKline to pay $750 million to settle whistleblower lawsuit for tainted drugs
Infections:
The End of Antibiotics and the Rise of Iodine as an Effective Alternative
Diet:
Plant-Based Diets: An Overview of Options for Optimal Health
Doctors:
The great direct-to-consumer prescription drug advertising con: how patients and doctors alike are easily influenced to demand dangerous drugs
Seizures:
Aspartame promotes grand mal seizures, say health experts
Immunizations:
Facebook goes full ORWELLIAN... now blocking all stories mentioning the keyword phrase 'm-nd-t-ry v-cc-n-t--ns'
Vaccinations:
Why Vaccinations Harm Children: Health Experts Sound Off
Subscribe to the Health Ranger's
FREE email newsletter
Follow @HealthRanger
Concepts related to MMR
bad medicine nutrition public health prevention vaccines immune system alternative medicine dangerous drugs hyperactivity pharmaceutical industry the FDA the brain Alzheimer's Merck FDA dairy products mercury heavy metals brain damage GlaxoSmithKline infections diet doctors seizures nervous system immunizations vaccinations wellness pediatrics mercury poisoning immunization epidemic Eli Lilly SAMe neurological damage Institute of Medicine hepatitis dyslexia autism childrens' health parasites
View MMR on NaturalPedia™
Today's Top Stories on NaturalNews
Today | Week | Month | Year
Top 11 causes of cancer you may have NEVER guessed - NaturalNews.com
Dancing on the Crumbling Precipice: Jim Quinn explains why the deep state is the true enemy of human civilization - NaturalNews.com
Why you need magnesium if you’re constantly stressed or anxious - NaturalNews.com
EXONERATED: No collusion, no obstruction… Trump cleared in bombshell Mueller report, exposing bald-faced LIES of the anti-Trump media - NaturalNews.com
CDC admits measles outbreak is caused by people from other countries who enter the United States and spread the disease - NaturalNews.com
With release of Muller report, the greatest political scandal and media hoax ever has finally unraveled - NaturalNews.com
Dairy industry to DISAPPEAR in 10 years? - NaturalNews.com
Organ donor? Organs are cut out of patients’ bodies even while they are conscious and aware, horrifying new science study reveals - NaturalNews.com
Stunning new material invented in Turkey: “Metallic wood” is 5 times stronger than titanium, but lighter - NaturalNews.com
Your brain keeps functioning for a while AFTER you die, raising new questions about organ donation and medical “harvesting” while patients are still aware - NaturalNews.com
Proctor & Gamble, whose products are full of toxic chemicals linked to cancer, demands Facebook enforce “brand safety” for advertisers - NaturalNews.com
Sweet dreams: Eating honey before you go to bed can help you sleep better - NaturalNews.com
The globalists sinister agenda is working to perfection – turning alpha men into beta boys is leading to Western Civilization’s extinction - NaturalNews.com
Calamansi fruit from the Philippines found to be a powerful anticancer food - NaturalNews.com
No to nuggets: Frozen chicken nuggets recalled since they may contain pieces of WOOD - NaturalNews.com
Medical BOMBSHELL: Chemotherapy found to spread cancer - NaturalNews.com
It’s official: the collapse of the mainstream media’s credibility is now complete - NaturalNews.com
Smartphones are killing Americans in shocking numbers… does anyone care? - NaturalNews.com
NYC Mayor De Blasio tells citizens: We own your bodies, and we can force you to be injected with anything we want - NaturalNews.com
Organ donor? Organs are cut out of patients’ bodies even while they are conscious and aware, horrifying new science study reveals - NaturalNews.com
Yes, Google has been LISTENING and RECORDING everything you say in your own home through secret NEST microphones - NaturalNews.com
Candida Auris: The silent superbug that’s already too late to stop – full documentary - NaturalNews.com
Top 11 causes of cancer you may have NEVER guessed - NaturalNews.com
ANALYSIS: Deep state behind arrest of Julian Assange in last-ditch desperate effort to take down Trump with forced “confessions” - NaturalNews.com
These 8 potent nutrients KILL cancer cells with no side effects - NaturalNews.com
Proposed new Texas law would demand safety studies for vaccines… no wonder the entire vaccine industry opposes it - NaturalNews.com
Health freedom alert: Britain to ban everyone from privately discussing vaccine ingredients, side effects and damage to children - NaturalNews.com
Top 4 historical HEALTH LIES the public needs to stop spreading as fact - NaturalNews.com
Make a list and check it twice: “Dirty Dozen” list of fruits and vegetables CONTAMINATED with pesticide residue - NaturalNews.com
Medical BOMBSHELL: Chemotherapy found to spread cancer - NaturalNews.com
Communist Chinese government announces bounty rewards for informants who identify Christians to be “disappeared” by the regime - NaturalNews.com
Why you need magnesium if you’re constantly stressed or anxious - NaturalNews.com
Here are 7 reasons why you should eat coconut oil before going to bed - NaturalNews.com
77 holistic practitioners now dead since 2015: This is beyond strange, they are dropping like flies and MSM ignores them - NaturalNews.com
Dancing on the Crumbling Precipice: Jim Quinn explains why the deep state is the true enemy of human civilization - NaturalNews.com
Amazon to exit collapsing liberal “sanctuary city” Seattle as drug addiction, homelessness and high business taxes make the Leftist stronghold increasingly uninhabitable - NaturalNews.com
Why you need magnesium if you’re constantly stressed or anxious - NaturalNews.com
Calamansi fruit from the Philippines found to be a powerful anticancer food - NaturalNews.com
NYC Mayor De Blasio tells citizens: We own your bodies, and we can force you to be injected with anything we want - NaturalNews.com
MEDICAL ALERT: Hospitals are releasing deadly superbug fungi into the open air, “colonizing” the population with dangerous pathogens that have a 41% – 88% fatality rate - NaturalNews.com
Microwave ovens ‘fluke’ your heart while they ‘nuke’ your food - alarming studies reveal microwave frequency radiation can affect heart and blood - NaturalNews.com
MEDICAL MARTIAL LAW rolled out in New York; unvaccinated citizens banned from all public places, including schools, churches, malls, sidewalks, public transit and voting locations - NaturalNews.com
Does removing sugar from your diet starve cancer cells? New study finds surprising answers - NaturalNews.com
IBM, the same company that provided punch card computing systems to the Nazis, lays groundwork for global “Mark of the Beast” cryptocurrency network - NaturalNews.com
UPS partnering with drug giants to inject you with vaccines in your own home… pilot project a blueprint for nationwide vaccine mandates at gunpoint - NaturalNews.com
It takes money to try to hold Big Pharma accountable: Chuck Norris sues 11 drug companies for poisoning his wife - NaturalNews.com
ALERT: Brighteon.com video platform under extreme threat from internet infrastructure providers, forced to delete all New Zealand shooting videos, essentially “at gunpoint” by the globalist controllers of the ‘net - NaturalNews.com
Organ donor? Organs are cut out of patients’ bodies even while they are conscious and aware, horrifying new science study reveals - NaturalNews.com
Burger King rolls out the genetically modified “Impossible Burger” made with questionable chemicals - NaturalNews.com
'Rollie pollies' remove heavy metals from soil, stabilizing growing conditions, protecting groundwater
Moral decline: Satanic symbols now appearing at government buildings all across America - NaturalNews.com
Yes, Google has been LISTENING and RECORDING everything you say in your own home through secret NEST microphones - NaturalNews.com
Candida Auris: The silent superbug that’s already too late to stop – full documentary - NaturalNews.com
ANALYSIS: Deep state behind arrest of Julian Assange in last-ditch desperate effort to take down Trump with forced “confessions” - NaturalNews.com
Court ruling confirms Gardasil vaccine kills people… scientific evidence beyond any doubt… so where is the outcry? - NaturalNews.com
Homeschooling skyrockets as more parents get fed up with Left-wing social engineering and violence in public schools - NaturalNews.com
CONFIRMED: Barack Obama was running the entire spygate operation that violated federal law to spy on Trump campaign officials - NaturalNews.com
U.S. chicken farms are so dirty, meat has to be washed with chlorine before being sold for human consumption - NaturalNews.com
Philippines government conducts armed raid of natural health clinic; hundred of patients thrown to the streets… Dr. Farrah forced to flee after entire family death threated - NaturalNews.com
“Mystery virus” spreading like wildfire across U.S. population, putting people in bed for a MONTH… is this a depopulation bioweapon experiment? - NaturalNews.com
Flu shot lands man in hospital, unable to speak, walk, see or even BREATHE - NaturalNews.com
Many cases of “dementia” are actually side effects of prescription drugs or vaccines, according to research - NaturalNews.com
It takes money to try to hold Big Pharma accountable: Chuck Norris sues 11 drug companies for poisoning his wife - NaturalNews.com
Scientists have discovered a way to destroy cancer tumors using nothing but sound waves - NaturalNews.com
Kavanaugh accuser Christine Blasey exposed for ties to Big Pharma abortion pill maker… effort to derail Kavanaugh is plot to protect abortion industry profits - NaturalNews.com
EMERGENCY REPORT: Signed Executive Orders reveal Trump is planning mass arrests, military tribunals for deep state traitors like Comey, Clinton and Obama – UPDATE - NaturalNews.com
FDA quietly bans powerful life-saving intravenous Vitamin C - NaturalNews.com
Study PROVES chemicals in shampoo and toothpaste are altering sex hormones in adolescents - NaturalNews.com
Why you need magnesium if you’re constantly stressed or anxious - NaturalNews.com
Watch out: That new Walmart cantaloupe was developed by Monsanto - NaturalNews.com
The criminalization of science whistleblowers: A mind-blowing interview with Judy Mikovits, PhD - NaturalNews.com
Microwave ovens ‘fluke’ your heart while they ‘nuke’ your food - alarming studies reveal microwave frequency radiation can affect heart and blood - NaturalNews.com
See All Top Headlines...
Most Popular Stories
TED aligns with Monsanto, halting any talks about GMOs, 'food as medicine' or natural healing
10 other companies that use the same Subway yoga mat chemical in their buns
Warning: Enrolling in Obamacare allows government to link your IP address with your name, social security number, bank accounts and web surfing habits
High-dose vitamin C injections shown to annihilate cancer
USDA to allow U.S. to be overrun with contaminated chicken from China
Vaccine fraud exposed: Measles and mumps making a huge comeback because vaccines are designed to fail, say Merck virologists
New USDA rule allows hidden feces, pus, bacteria and bleach in conventional poultry
Battle for humanity nearly lost: global food supply deliberately engineered to end life, not nourish it
Harvard research links fluoridated water to ADHD, mental disorders
10 outrageous (but true) facts about vaccines the CDC and the vaccine industry don't want you to know
EBT card food stamp recipients ransack Wal-Mart stores, stealing carts full of food during federal computer glitch
Cannabis kicks Lyme disease to the curb
Recommended Resources
TV.NaturalNews.com is a free video website featuring thousands of videos on holistic health, nutrition, fitness, recipes, natural remedies and much more.
CounterThink Cartoons are free to view and download. They cover topics like health, environment and freedom.
The Consumer Wellness Center is a non-profit organization offering nutrition education grants to programs that help children and expectant mothers around the world.
Food Investigations is a series of mini-documentaries exposing the truth about dangerous ingredients in the food supply.
Webseed.com offers alternative health programs, documentaries and more.
The Honest Food Guide is a free, downloadable public health and nutrition chart that dares to tell the truth about what foods we should really be eating.
HealingFoodReference.com offers a free online reference database of healing foods, phytonutrients and plant-based medicines that prevent or treat diseases and health conditions.
HerbReference.com is a free, online reference library that lists medicinal herbs and their health benefits.
NutrientReference.com is a free online reference database of phytonutrients (natural medicines found in foods) and their health benefits. Lists diseases, foods, herbs and more.
This site is part of the Natural News Network © 2014 All Rights Reserved. Privacy | Terms All content posted on this site is commentary or opinion and is protected under Free Speech. Truth Publishing International, LTD. is not responsible for content written by contributing authors. The information on this site is provided for educational and entertainment purposes only. It is not intended as a substitute for professional advice of any kind. Truth Publishing assumes no responsibility for the use or misuse of this material. Your use of this website indicates your agreement to these terms and those published here. All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks mentioned on this site are the property of their respective owners.