Male Or Female: Cancer Genes Can't Tell - Ivanhoe Broadcast News, Inc.
News Flash:
Decline in measles vaccination is causing a preventable global resurgence of the disease-Click Here
Researchers use gene editing with CRISPR to treat lethal lung diseases before birth-Click Here
Heart patch could limit muscle damage in heart attack aftermath-Click Here
Heads in the cloud: Scientists predict internet of thoughts ‘within decades’-Click Here
How college students can end up in vicious cycle of substance abuse, poor academics, stress-Click Here
Scientists print first 3D heart using patient’s biological materials-Click Here
A nap a day keeps high blood pressure at bay-Click Here
In small groups, people follow high-performing leaders-Click Here
Tick tock: Commitment readiness predicts relationship success-Click Here
A comprehensive ‘parts list’ of the brain built from its components, the cells-Click Here
Search
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Youtube
RSS
Log In
Cart
Saturday, Apr 20, 2019
Navigate
Home
Medical Breakthroughs
Alzheimer’s
Arthritis
Asthma
Autism
Breast Cancer
Cardiovascular
Dental
Diabetes
Fertility and Pregnancy
MS
Neurological
Orthopaedics
Parkinsons
Prostate Cancer
Pulmonary
Robotics and devices
Transplants
Vision
Family Health
Children
Men
Mental
Nutrition and Wellness
Sports Medicine
Women
Smart Living
Career and Money
Health News
Life Hacks
Motivation
Nutrition and Wellness
Parenting
Pay It Forward
Pets
Relationships
Sports and Hobbies
Technology
Positive Parenting
English
Spanish
What’s New
About Us
Who we are
Ivanhoe’s Founders
Employment Opportunities
Contact Us
Feedback
HomeMedical BreakthroughsBreast Cancer
Male Or Female: Cancer Genes Can’t Tell
0
By Ivanhoe Broadcast News on	 February 27, 2018 Breast Cancer Medical Breakthroughs Prostate Cancer
PHILADELPHIA, Pa. (Ivanhoe Newswire) — Prostate cancer is the second most common cancer in American men, right after skin cancer. While genetic testing and counseling may be offered for women with family histories of breast and ovarian cancers, doctors have had little guidance on genetic screening for inherited prostate cancer, but that could be changing.
“Turns out that cancer came along and you just don’t let it get you down, you don’t let it beat you,” David ‘Doc’ Livingston explained to Ivanhoe.
Doc had both bladder and prostate cancer. His dad, uncle and brother all died from lymphatic and prostate cancer, leading him to DNA testing, out of concern for his own two sons. What Doc didn’t know was that women in his family could also be at risk. Researchers say inherited cancers cross genders.
“For example, BRCA2, the second breast cancer gene can lead to increased risk of prostate cancer in men and if a woman inherits a mutation in those genes, an increased risk of breast and ovarian cancer for women.” Veda N. Giri, MD, Director, Cancer Risk Assessment and Clinical Cancer Genetics; Associate Professor, Medical Oncology and Cancer Biology, Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center at Thomas Jefferson University explained. (Read Full Interview)
This insight into the underlying genetic cause of prostate cancer may ultimately shape the treatment, management and screening of patients.
“We expect that it’s actually going to inform even earlier stage disease for prostate cancer, as well,” said Doctor Giri.
When it comes to cancer detection, researchers say the earlier the better.
Doctor Giri continued, “So, for example, if a man is in a family that has a BRCA2 mutation, and he has inherited that mutation, whether it’s from his father or his mother, he would be recommended to start prostate cancer screening at a younger age.”
David says it’s potentially life-saving information that makes the testing process all worthwhile.
Livingston explained, “That’s nothing compared to what the suffering that so many people have with the different types of cancers that are out there.”
Men at average risk of prostate cancer should have a discussion with their doctors about screening starting at age 50. Men at higher- than- average risk, like those with family history, should have the discussion starting at age 40 or 45. Doctor Giri says David did not carry the BRCA gene, but did show variants in genes, which are earlier indicators that mutations might be underway.
Contributors to this news report include: Donna Parker, Field Producer; Kirk Manson, Videographer; Cyndy McGrath, Supervising Producer; Gabriella Battistiol, Assistant Producer; Roque Correa, Editor.
To receive a free weekly e-mail on Medical Breakthroughs from Ivanhoe, sign up at: http://www.ivanhoe.com/ftk
MEDICAL BREAKTHROUGHS
RESEARCH SUMMARY
TOPIC: MALE OR FEMALE: CANCER GENES CAN’T TELL
REPORT: MB #4382
CANCER RISK ASSESSMENT: Individuals are considered to be candidates for cancer risk assessment if they have a personal or family history/clinical characteristics with features that may suggest hereditary cancer. These features can vary, but criteria has been published to help identify those who would benefit from genetic counseling. It’s important that these individuals undergo genetic education and counseling before testing so they are prepared to make informed decisions and adapt to the risk or condition. Cancer risk assessment and counseling includes clinical assessment, genetic testing when appropriate, and risk management recommendations given at genetic counseling sessions. Traditionally these services have been delivered via in-person, individualized appointments.
(Source: https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/risk-assessment-pdq)
GENETICS AND CANCER: Some types of cancer may run in certain families, but most are not clearly linked to the genes inherited from our parents. Gene changes that begin in a single cell over the course of a person’s life cause most cancers. But advances in genetics and molecular biology have increased knowledge of the inner workings of cells. Certain mutations are commonly found in the cells of certain types of cancer, and finding these can confirm the diagnosis of that cancer. In some cancers, particular gene changes can be used to predict which patients are likely to have better or worse outcomes, and this can help guide the intensity of treatment. Drugs have been developed that target some of the gene changes in certain cancers, and these drugs often focus on targeting the protein made by the abnormal gene and not the gene itself.
(Sources: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/cancer-causes/genetics.html
https://www.cancer.org/cancer/cancer-causes/genetics/genes-and-cancer/genes-in-cancer-diagnosis-and-treatment.html)
GENETIC TESTING: Researchers are collaborating to learn about genetic risks when it comes to certain cancers, more recently focusing on prostate cancer. Understanding and learning what genes are responsible for inherited prostate cancer can aid in answering what that means for men who have it, or their unaffected sons’ risk of developing prostate cancer. It may also lead to more information on cancers that can cross gender. For instance, in certain genes that lead to risk for prostate cancer in men, if a women inherits the mutation those genes may increase risk of ovarian and breast cancer. Other cancers can be tied in as well, such as pancreatic cancer or melanoma. This genetic testing has a global impact on not only the family, but may provide more information, leading to better treatment management and screening.
(Source: Dr. Veda Giri)
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON THIS REPORT, PLEASE CONTACT:
Gail Benner
Gail.benner@jefferson.edu
If this story or any other Ivanhoe story has impacted your life or prompted you or someone you know to seek or change treatments, please let us know by contacting Marjorie Bekaert Thomas at mthomas@ivanhoe.com
Share this:
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Read the entire Doctor Q&A for Veda N. Giri, MD
Read the entire Q&A
Previous ArticleMaking the Grade: Integrated Student Supports
Next Article Reacting to Baby’s Cry
Related Stories
Senhance: New Robotic Surgery for Colon Polyps
Bluetooth DRG Pain Control
Breast Milk to Treat Adult Diseases?
Be the First to Know
If you would like receive our free weekly newsletter, First to Know, subscribe here:
Search Articles
Search for:
Channels
Medical Breakthroughs
Family Health
Smart Living
Positive Parenting
Top 10 Reports
Natural Ways to Treat Thyroid Disease
Stroke Shoe Retrains the Brain
Avi Uses SCD To Fight Crohn’s
Fix Bulging Veins to Rejuvenate Your Hands
New Treatment for Neuropathy: Medicine’s Next Big Thing?
Three Last Wishes
Calypso Knee: No Replacement Needed
Can An Old Drug Prevent Type 1 Diabetes?
First Ever Oral Drug For Type 1 Diabetes
Magic Powder Heals Wounds Nothing Else Can
Sponsored Ads
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
Recent Posts
April 20, 2019 Making Food Last…And Other Things Too!
April 19, 2019 Senhance: New Robotic Surgery for Colon Polyps
April 19, 2019 Female Baby Boomers Make Global Impact
April 18, 2019 Bluetooth DRG Pain Control
April 18, 2019 Female Illustrator Succeeds in the Freelance World
Get Unlimited Access
Get Unlimited access to all interviews for just $34.00
Find out more
We are the country’s largest news-gathering organization covering medical breakthroughs, family health and issues important to women. The information we provide is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
Feedback
TV Partners
Employment Opportunities
In-depth Doctor Interviews
Search
Search for:
Copyright © 2018 Ivanhoe Broadcast News, Inc. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Youtube
RSS