eNews: FAQ: Processed Meat and Cancer | American Institute for Cancer Research (AICR)
AICR'S ITHRIVE PLAN
RECIPES
CANCER HEALTH CHECK
SHOP
Donate Now
Planned Giving
Memorial Gifts
Car Donations
Home
Reduce Your Cancer Risk
Diet
How healthy is your diet?
A cancer-protective diet
Healthy recipes
Nutrition facts
Phytochemicals in your food
Red and processed meat
Sugar and cancer risk
Alcohol and cancer risk
Physical Activity
Are you active enough?
Physical activity and cancer risk
Getting started
Weight
Are you a healthy weight?
Obesity and cancer risk
Lose weight the healthy way
Weight loss, myths vs facts
Cancer Risk and Other Lifestyle Factors
Cancer Prevention
Recommendations
Other Lifestyle Factors
Hot Topics
Recommendations for Cancer Prevention
Sign up for epubs
Resources
Cancer Sites
Cancer Prevention Month
Campaign website
A 30-Day Cancer Prevention Checklist
Foods that Fight Cancer
Cancer Health Check
Our Research
Third Expert Report
Continuous Update Project
Grant Program
Grant application package
AICR Research team
AICR Research Conference
Cancer Research Update
Research Impact
AICR Progress
How our research is used
Research We Fund
Latest projects
Meet the Grantees
Marilyn Gentry Fellowship
Search by scientist/topic
Meetings Calendar
How You Can Help
Ways to Give
Become a monthly donor
Give at work
Donate your vehicle
Give while you shop
Match your gift
Partnership Opportunities
Honor/Memorial/Tribute
Give a gift in memory
Give a gift in honor
Create a tribute
Estate Planners Corner
Planned Giving Options
Get Involved
Join Team AICR
Ask the special events coordinator
Shred Cancer
Cancer Survivors
AICR’s iTHRIVE Plan
Getting Ready for Treatment
Questions about your diagnosis
Questions to ask your doctor
Finding support
During Treatment
Exercising during treatment
Dealing with treatment side effects
Foods to try during treatment
Staying Healthy After Treatment
Preventing recurrence, secondary cancers
Dealing with weight gain or loss
Healthy or Harmful
Soy
Flaxseed
Alkaline diets
Supplements
Asparagus Claims
Vegetarian and vegan
Sugar and other topics in the news
Resources for You
Take our 12 week healthy weight challenge
Cooking for health
Read the latest research
CancerResource - a handbook
Recharge: Monthly Newsletter
A Dietitian’s Cancer Story
About Us
Who We Are
History
Mission
Leadership
Global Network
What We Do
Research
Impact
Education
Resources For
Press
Health professionals
Researchers
Parents/families
Contact Us
Financial Information
Content Usage
Researchers
Health Professionals
Supporters
Survivors
WCRF/AICR
Global Network
August
FAQ: Processed Meat and Cancer
Bacon, ham, cold cuts – we get more questions about processed meats than any other type of food. It’s not surprising since the headlines can change with every new study. So we put together some answers to your most-asked questions.
What Are Processed Meats?
AICR/WCRF’s expert report and its updates define processed meat as “meat preserved by smoking, curing or salting, or addition of chemical preservatives.” Ham, bacon, sausages, hot dogs and yes, deli meats, are all considered processed meat.
How Does Processed Meat Affect Cancer Risk?
The latest analysis of the global research found that eating even small amounts of cold cuts or other processed meats on a regular basis increases the risk of colorectal cancer.
The report by AICR/WCRF also found that eating high amounts of red meat – over 18 ounces a week – linked to increased risk of colorectal cancer.
In addition to its link to colorectal cancer, processed meat may also increase risk of heart disease.
How Much Processed Meat Is Safe to Eat?
Processed Meats
Sausage
Bacon
Deli meats
Hot dogs
Ham
Pepperoni
Salami
Corned beef
Research suggests that regularly eating even small amounts of cold cuts, bacon, sausage and hot dogs increase colorectal cancer risk, which is why AICR recommends avoiding these foods, except for special occasions.
The risk continues to rise as processed meat consumption increases. Studies show that compared to eating no processed meat, eating 3.5 ounces every day – a large hot dog – increases colorectal cancer risk by 36%.
Why Does Processed Meat Increase Cancer Risk?
It’s not yet clear exactly why processed meats increase risk for colorectal cancer. Researchers are currently exploring a few possible mechanisms, including:
Nitrates/Nitrites: These are added to processed meats to preserve color and prevent spoilage. In lab studies, these compounds form cancer-causing compounds, carcinogens.
Smoking: Smoked meats contain PAHs (Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons), substances that are formed at high-heat and considered carcinogenic.
Cooking at high temperatures: Meats cooked at high temperatures can also contain PAHs and heterocyclic amines (HCAs), which can damage DNA.
Heme iron: The heme iron found in red meat may damage the lining of the colon.
What about nitrate/nitrite-free turkey or other deli meats?
These products are relatively new. At this point, more research is needed to distinguish between nitrate/nitrite-free processed meats and the typical hot dogs and luncheon meats with added nitrates and nitrites. Sausage and other processed meat made from turkey or chicken is still smoked, salted, or cured so it is also included among the processed meats to carefully limit.
How to Reduce Overall Risk
When it comes to nutrition and cancer, it’s the healthy choices you make every day that matter most. The occasional hot dog at a baseball game or ham on a holiday is unlikely to increase cancer risk. To decrease your overall risk, try some of these simple swaps:
Replace packaged deli meats with fresh chicken or fish
Instead of bacon, chorizo or salami, try spicy vegetarian sausages.
Replace sausage in chili and sauces with beans like kidney beans, chickpeas and lentils.
Try out different sources of protein like eggs, cottage cheese and hummus.
Use herbs and spices like garlic, fennel seed and chili flakes to add flavor to your dish.
You May Also Like
What Is Processed Meat?
Learn More about Colorectal Cancer
Questions: Ask Our Staff
Talk to us!
Our planned giving staff is
here to help you!
Ann Wrenshall Worley
Assistant Director of Planned Giving
Call Us: (800) 843-8114
Send us a note
About AICR
We fund cutting-edge research and give people practical tools and information to help them prevent — and survive — cancer.
More About AICR »
Contact
American Institute for Cancer Research
1560 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 1000, Arlington, VA 22209
P: (800) 843-8114
Fax: (202) 328-7226 | Email: aicrweb@aicr.org
Sign Up For Email
Get the latest research, strategies and news on cancer prevention and survivorship.
SIGN UP
Donate Now
Privacy Policy
Do Not Call Policy
Terms of Service
© American Institute for Cancer Research
The American Institute for Cancer Research is a nonprofit charity designated as tax-exempt under Section 501(c)3 by the Internal Revenue Service.
Donations are tax-deductible to the full extent of the law. EIN 52-1238026.