World Health Organization Says Processed Meat Causes Cancer
Skip to Content
Menu Search
Cancer Helpline 800.227.2345
double-chat-bubble Live Chat
Latest News
English
Español
More Languages
Donate
Donate
Cancer A-Z
Stay Healthy
Treatment & Support
Our Research
Get Involved
Our Partners
About Us
News
English Español More Languages
Donate
double-chat-bubble
Live Chat
Cancer Helpline
800.227.2345
Phone
Search
Search
Category Latest News
World Health Organization Says Processed Meat Causes Cancer
Written By: Stacy Simon Senior Editor, News
Tagged In
Cancer Updates
Carcinogens
Colon and Rectal Cancer
Diet Nutrition
Pancreatic Cancer
Prostate Cancer
World Health Organization Says Processed Meat Causes Cancer
Oct 26, 2015
The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) has classified processed meat as a carcinogen, something that causes cancer. And it has classified red meat as a probable carcinogen, something that probably causes cancer. IARC is the cancer agency of the World Health Organization.
Processed meat includes hot dogs, ham, bacon, sausage, and some deli meats. It refers to meat that has been treated in some way to preserve or flavor it. Processes include salting, curing, fermenting, and smoking. Red meat includes beef, pork, lamb, and goat.
Twenty-two experts from 10 countries reviewed more than 800 studies to reach their conclusions. They found that eating 50 grams of processed meat every day increased the risk of colorectal cancer by 18%. That’s the equivalent of about 4 strips of bacon or 1 hot dog. For red meat, there was evidence of increased risk of colorectal, pancreatic, and prostate cancer.
Overall, the lifetime risk of someone developing colon cancer is 5%. To put the numbers into perspective, the increased risk from eating the amount of processed meat in the study would raise average lifetime risk to almost 6%.
Colleen Doyle, MS, RD, American Cancer Society managing director of nutrition and physical activity, says, "We should be limiting red and processed meat to help reduce colon cancer risk, and possibly, the risk of other cancers. The occasional hot dog or hamburger is okay."
The American Cancer Society has long recommended a diet that limits processed meat and red meat, and that is high in vegetables, fruits, and whole grains. The American Cancer Society Guidelines on Nutrition and Physical Activity for Cancer Prevention recommend choosing fish, poultry, or beans instead of red meat and processed meat.
Avoiding tobacco, getting to and staying at a healthy weight, getting regular physical activity, and limiting alcohol can also help people lower their risk of getting many types of cancer.
IARC published its report online October 26, 2015 in The Lancet Oncology.
Give us your feedback
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Add a comment
Comments are optional
If you need help or information, please call us at 1-800-227-2345 or use live chat for the quickest response.
First Name (optional)
Last Name (optional)
Email Address (optional)
Submit
Error
Thank you for your feedback.
Reviewed by
Citations
The American Cancer Society medical and editorial content team
Our team is made up of doctors and oncology certified nurses with deep knowledge of cancer care as well as journalists, editors, and translators with extensive experience in medical writing.
Carcinogenicity of consumption of red and processed meat. Published early online October 26, 2015 in The Lancet Oncology. First author Veronique Bouvard, International Agency for Research on Cancer Monograph Working Group, Lyon, France.
American Cancer Society news stories are copyrighted material and are not intended to be used as press releases. For reprint requests, please see our Content Usage Policy.
Related News and Stories
Diet, Exercise, and Your Cancer Risk
Two of the most important lifestyle habits to help you lower your cancer risk are eating healthy and staying active. Learn about cancer’s connection to diet and exercise.
Grow Your Own Garden
Enjoy the outdoors, get some exercise, create beauty, and grow your own food all at the same time! Learn more about the benefits of working in your own garden.
Should You Avoid Gluten?
“Gluten-free” foods are popping up everywhere, from grocery stores to restaurants. What is gluten? Is it good or bad for you? Should you avoid it? We have the answers.
Get More News
Read More
Stay Healthy
Shop Now
Browse Our Books
Sign Up
Get Involved
BackTo Top
Imagine a world free from cancer. Help make it a reality.
DONATE
Cancer Information
Cancer Prevention & Detection
Cancer Basics
Signs & Symptoms of Cancer
Treatments & Side Effects
Cancer Facts & Statistics
News and Stories
Glossary
For Health Care Professionals
Programs & Services
Breast Cancer Support
TLC Hair Loss & Mastectomy Products
Hope Lodge® Lodging
Rides To Treatment
Online Support Communities
ACS FUNDRAISERS
Making Strides Against Breast Cancer Walks
Relay For Life Events
College Relay For Life
Coaches vs. Cancer
Galas, Balls & Parties
Ways to Give
Memorial Giving
Planned Giving
Leadership Giving
Donate a Car
About ACS
Contact Us
Local Offices
Employment
Information for Suppliers
Report Fraud or Abuse
Global Health
ACS CAN
Sign Up for Email
Policies
Our Volunteers
More ACS Sites
Bookstore
Shop
Cancer Atlas
Press Room
Cancer Statistics Center
Volunteer Learning Center
Follow Us
Twitter Facebook Instagram
Cancer Information, Answers, and Hope. Available Every Minute of Every Day.
800.227.2345
Live Chat
Follow Us
Twitter Facebook Instagram
help
site map
privacy policy - 2018
accessibility
terms of use
state fundraising notices
Site Comments
© 2019 American Cancer Society, Inc. All rights reserved. The American Cancer Society is a qualified 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. Cancer.org is provided courtesy of the Leo and Gloria Rosen family.
Close
*
Close
Image of
Previous Next
Close
Close
Select A Hope Lodge