Big Pharma Doesn't Want You to Know About Lemon and Baking Soda's Ability to Destroy Cancer Cells - Best Daily Health and Remedy Articles
Sgggc.org
Best Daily Health and Remedy Articles
Menu
Health
Beauty
Home Remedies
natural remedies
Diet and Weight Loss
General
Home
baking soda
Big Pharma Doesn’t Want You to Know About Lemon and Baking Soda's Ability to Destroy Cancer Cells
Big Pharma Doesn’t Want You to Know About Lemon and Baking Soda's Ability to Destroy Cancer Cells
admin baking soda, Cancer, Diet, lemon, natural cures
Claim:.
Reality :. Even the most aggressive cancers are reversed with treatments based on lemon and baking soda (Scroll down to read about studies)
Big Pharma + = cancer chemotherapy
Do you know why oncologists still prescribe chemotherapy when they know that drives cancer growth does not work 97% of the time, it causes the symptoms of disease man made worse, and shortens hope life – when they also recognize the fact that ginger extract and its bioactive components prevent the development of cancer; marijuana causes cells to commit suicide leaving healthy cells unharmed to cancer; and the combination of lime and sodium bicarbonate has a 10,000 times more potent than chemotherapy effect?
Do you still want to know why Big Pharma keeps pouring their money into cancer treatment, not prevention or cure of the same; why cancer is still terminal; and why it still has the power to kill?
is obvious -. Cancer is a gold mine for Big Pharma companies
According to the World Health Organization, 8.2 million people die each year from cancer, it is estimated that 13% of all deaths worldwide. There are more than 100 types of cancer, each requiring a unique diagnosis and expensive treatment.
According to the American Society of Clinical Oncology, cancer drugs cost an average of $ 10,000 per month, with some exceeding $ 30,000 per month therapies. These figures do not include the indirect costs of cancer :. hospital and outpatient facilities, drugs that mitigate the side effects of chemotherapy, and oncologists fees
Lemon + baking soda = no cancer
Lemon is an inexhaustible source of cancer-fighting compounds. It contains vitamin C, an antioxidant that stimulates the immune system and protects cells against damage caused by free radicals [damaged cells lead to growth of cancer]. Limonoides contains phytochemicals that help remove the protective layer coating the cancer cells [In 2004, it was discovered that some citrus limonoids can inhibit the development of oral cancer]. It contains limonene, a molecule that stimulates lymph flow and plays a role in removing carcinogens human body.
Sodium bicarbonate or sodium bicarbonate is an antidote against cancer. It can be used to diagnose cancer in its earliest stages; You can protect patients from toxicity caused by chemotherapy; You can defend healthy kidneys and other tissues of the body of radioactive damage during radiation treatments; You can increase the pH of acidic tumors without altering the pH of blood and healthy tissues (therefore can prevent metastasis); You can make more alkaline tumors and inhibit metastasis; and it can be applied as a first-line drug for the treatment of cancer when taken orally with water high in magnesium.
From lemon also has strong anti-microbial, lemon and baking soda effects can help fight the fungus that causes various types of cancer. Since baking soda is used as a cleaning agent, lemon and baking soda can help increase the body’s ability to cleanse itself of what may be the cause of cancer in the first place.
One of the many recipes lemon and baking soda that can kill malignant tumor cells that cause uncrushed healthy cells [it is important that you drink this mix 4 times a day]
– 2 teaspoons lemon juice (freshly squeezed) organic
– ½ teaspoon baking (not aluminum) bicarbonate
– 8 oz of water
World renowned practitioner of alternative medicine, Dr. Julian Whitaker has developed a successful cancer treatment that costs about $ 3. Whitaker [to be taken thrice a day] protocol includes 2 teaspoons baking soda, low-calorie sweetener and 2 cups water. This treatment is mainly used for digestive tract cancer, including cancers of the throat, colon, intestine, rectal area, and other cancers in the middle.
Studies support what promises Up
University of Florida
A 2002 report noted that flavonoids (a compound found in citrus fruits such as lemon) has anti-cancer, anti-viral, anti-inflammatory capacity and reduces cholesterol.
Limonoids inhibit the development of cancer in laboratory animals and in human breast cells cancer and lowering cholesterol. Researchers have also suggested that, if ingested, limonoids can not be absorbed in the large intestine, and therefore could be distributed throughout the body, with beneficial effects.
Texas A & M AgriLife Research
In a research conducted by Dr. Ed Harris and Dr. Patil Bhumu 2004 limonoides showed dramatic results in killing certain cancer cells.
In the laboratory, led limonoides and stopped neuroblastoma cells. Neuroblastoma, which accounts for about 10% of all cancers in children, usually is a solid tumor in the neck, chest, spinal cord or adrenal gland. The finding of citrus is promising not only for its potential to stop cancer, but because limonoids induce no side effects. We hope to learn the reasons for the stop-action behavior and eventually try the citrus concoction in humans.
U.S. Department of Agriculture
In 2007, researchers recognized limonoides citrus as important contributors to improving human health and welfare.
Assessment of biological activity limonoides citrus has indicated the potential of these compounds to enhance human health as cancer, lowering cholesterol, and antiviral agents.
University of Arizona Cancer Center
This 2009 study is among the first to confirm that the alkalizing effect of sodium bicarbonate fact can stop cancer.
Oral NaHCO3 [baking soda] selectively increased the pH of tumors and reduces spontaneous metastasis formation in mouse models of metastatic breast cancer. NaHCO3 therapy also reduced the rate of lymph node involvement, but did not affect the levels of circulating tumor cells, suggesting that reducing organ metastases were not due to increased intravasation. Conversely, NaHCO3therapy significantly reduced the formation of liver metastases after intrasplenic injection, suggesting that inhibited the extravasation and colonization.
Di Istituto Mario Negri Pharmacological Research
A 2010 study of cases and controls in Italy found that eating four or more servings of 150 grams per week of citrus decreased the risk of throat cancer by 58%, oral / pharyngeal cancer by 53% , stomach cancer by 31%, and colorectal cancer by 18%.
Citrus has shown a favorable effect against various cancers. Our findings indicate that citrus has a protective role against cancers of the respiratory and digestive tract superior.
University of Arizona Cancer Center
In 2012, Dr. Mark Pagel received a grant of $ 2 million from the National Institutes of Health to study the effectiveness of treatment with sodium bicarbonate personalized cancer [which has been proven to reduce or eliminate the spread of breast cancer to the lungs, brain and bone] for breast cancer.
By measuring the acid content of the tumor, doctors can monitor the effectiveness of personalized treatments such as baking soda in both tumors and healthy tissues, and even predict the effectiveness of chemotherapy before the patient begins medication.
Texas A & M University
In 2013, researchers first investigated the mechanism and the effectiveness of anti-cancer and anti-aromatase limonoides properties.
Our findings indicate that citrus limonoides may have potential for prevention of estrogen-sensitive breast cancer (MCF-7) through pathways dependent caspase-7.
Clearly, lemon and baking soda port anticancer properties that may help prevent cancer. Although research and evidence on cancer cure baking soda and lemon is extremely limited, the current encouraging results and future prospects can not be overlooked.
You May Also Like:
Tweet Pin It
Related Posts
Agave – creating a safer sweetener?
admin October 16, 2016
The FDA Banned this Toxic Chemical from Soap… But Not Toothpaste
admin September 30, 2016
6 Simple Exercises Fight Bloating, Improve Digestion, and Cut Belly Fat
admin August 17, 2016
Adults across the world not getting enough omega-3
admin August 10, 2016
Add a Comment
Cancel reply
This So Powerful Ancient Remedy “Cures All Diseases” : HIV, AIDS, Diabetes, Cancer, Stroke, STDs, Arthritis & More …
What Your Birth Month Says About Your Love Life
Benefits of Camel Milk: Low Allergen Alternative to Dairy
Early Signs That Cancer Is Growing In Your Body!
I Refuse To Let My Wife’s Depression Ruin My Marriage
Mike Chang’s Six Pack Shortcuts – Abs Fitness Coach?
Top Five Homeopathic Remedies for Joint Pains in Rheumatoid Arthritis
Okinawa Diet – The Healthy Human Diet To Live Past 100?
What Difference, at This Point, Does It Make?
14 Quick And Healthy Low Calorie Dinner Recipes
Recent Visits
money for a lifetime pdf
sp-5 cancer cure
what are the zombies in fortnite called
what are zombies called in fortnite
amanda fuller and weight gain
secret codes for blood moon tycoon
dr kellie nash obituary
cellulite/edgar cayce
What are the zombies in Fortnite called?
emory patient portal
Populer Keywords
what big pharma doesn t want you to know about essential oils
big pharma doesn t want you to know
big pharma doesn t want you to know
big pharma doesn t want to cure you
what big pharma doesn t want you to know about essential oils
big pharma doesn t want to cure you
big pharma companies
big pharma tegen de staat
big pharma maffia
big pharma gameplay
Popular Tags
d jd fيوتيوب, dirt cheap protocol, What are the zombies in Fortnite called?, emory patient portal, dr glenn rothfeld scam, the secrets of underground medicine scam, dr bob dsm-5, how does fuushima disaster hurt climate change, secrets of underground medicine scam, harbin clinic patient portal, what are the zombies in fortnite called, dr john bergman scam, gx-9 supplement scam, niah and ellie show, what happened to jack on macgyver
Sgggc.org Copyright © 2019.
Contact
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
DMCA Notice & Policy
Disclaimer
==[Click 2x to Close X]==
Most Popular Today!
What Your Birth Month Says About Your Love Life 400 views
I Refuse To Let My Wife’s Depression Ruin My Marriage 200 views
4 Patriots – Disaster Preparedness Company 100 views