Baking soda as an anti-candida and cancer cure
Contact
Sponsored articles
Privacy policy
MENU
Menu
Diets for weight loss
Health
Ketogenic diet
BMI Calculator
Ketogenic diet menu for easy weight loss health Baking soda as an anti-candida and cancer cure
Baking soda as an anti-candida and cancer cure
health
How to use baking soda as a medicine
Whole books have been written about healing powers and other benefits that baking soda if used as a medicine can bring. Baking soda is also known as a cleaning agent in the household. It is also used as a means of raising the dough during baking, because it produces carbon dioxide bubbles that give cakes, donuts and other types of bread their "build-up" power. On top of that it is also used because it has a variety of healing properties. In this article we will tell more about what are the benefits that baking soda without aluminium can offer.
Baking soda as a medicine for a variety of discomforts
Baking soda also known as sodium bicarbonate or simply "bicarbonate" is one of the most efficient antacids. It relieves itching when it comes to insect bites. It helps to remove dental plaque and neutralizes the acids that damage teeth. It relieves the symptoms of a bladder infection. Doctors even use it to reduce the level of acids in the blood during dialysis. So do not underestimate that little bag on your shelf.
Medical soda without aluminium is naturally a neutralizing agent. All chemicals can be ranked according to their pH, measure of acidity or alkalinity. Water is, with its pH value of 7, 0 neutral. If you have heartburn, you can take one teaspoon of sodium bicarbonate with a few drops of lemon juice mixed in a glass of water. Lemon juice helps to neutralize some of the gas that soda can build up when combined with the gastric acid. When you drink this sparkling medicine, it will neutralize the hydrochloric acid by transforming it into harmless sodium chloride and carbon dioxide. This effect lasts only about 30 minutes, but its effect is almost immediate.
Baking soda as a remedy for gout - This condition occurs as a consequence of a strong urinary acid. By using this remedy you improve and neutralize the pH of the urine. That is why gout is another of those conditions that can be neutralize with the help of sodium bicarbonate. Bacteria grow in a slightly acidic environment inside the bladder. When you have an infection, a mix of baking soda and water is the perfect beverage after dinner. Do not use this medicine too often, because the soda is rich in sodium, which can increase your blood pressure.
Reduce the amount of acids that damage the teeth with the help of baking soda without aluminium. Acids produced by bacteria in the mouth damage tooth enamel. You can neutralize them by rinsing your mouth with baking soda several times a day or use your toothbrush, place it in the baking soda and brush your teeth. Bicarbonate which is usually added to many types of toothpaste slightly scrapes and polishes teeth without damaging the enamel.
Make sure your feet smell good. Added to foot bath, sodium bicarbonate can neutralize bacterial acids that cause foot odour. Baking soda as a deodorant is getting more and more popular. You can use it is while bathing in order to get rid of unpleasant odours in the armpit area. A paste of bicarbonate and water can also help cure athlete's foot.
Treatment with sodium bicarbonate against candida
Candida albicans is a fungus that is present in certain amounts in every person and it grows in the intestinal flora. The fungus also lives in the mouth, throat and genitals in most people. The organism in a healthy person keeps candida levels under control, but if your immunity accidentally drops the fungus can replicate and cause serious health problems.
In present times we live in, there are many reasons for the appearance of candida such as stress, unhealthy diet, contraceptives, and excessive use of antibiotics. Ancient Egyptians knew about the effect of the anti-fungal medicines, and in Indian literature soda is mentioned as a remedy for the treatment of cancer. Daily intake of baking soda has a therapeutic and preventive effect on our organism and is an invaluable contribution to maintaining a good health and vitality.
When it comes to the male part of the population baking soda as an anti-candida cure can be used as follows:
Make two solutions in two yogurt cups, in one cup put water and pharmaceutical soda, and in other water and common salt. In the next 5-minute soak your genitalia in one cup, and a few seconds later in another container, repeat the process couple of times.
For the female part of the population it recommended to put the solution of baking soda into a syringe and inject it into the genitals 3 times a day and the results will follow.
Now that we have learned how to use baking soda against Candida, we have been left with no choice but to get some baking soda. Note that in both cases it is necessary to use soda without aluminium; you can find the same in your pharmacy.
Treating cancer with baking soda - Tulio Simoncini
Medical soda without aluminium is recommended with the treatment of cancer. For stomach, intestines, rectum and mouth cancer take one teaspoon of sodium bicarbonate in the morning and in the evening with a glass of water for a month. After that the cancer should withdraw. You should not use this therapy for more than 4 weeks. According to the Dr. Tullius Simoncini, an Italian oncologist, the cancer can be beat with medical assistance in the form of injections and intervention therapies. For an intervention therapy procedure the procedure is as follows: 500 ml of a 5 percent sodium hydroxide solution is injected directly into the vein every day. The therapy lasts for six days, after that there is a six days break. You need to use this treatment until you get 24 infusions. After that, check whether the cancer has withdrawn.
Therapy with baking soda and maple syrup by Dr. Kelmunu has its own special recipe for the treatment of cancer. The idea of mixing sodium bicarbonate with maple syrup may seem funny to some people because cancer cells feed off sugar. But in this case, sugar has a different effect and cancer cells fail to use sugar for its own growth, because pharmaceutical soda without aluminium neutralizes them immediately. It is assumed that this therapy works like chemotherapy, it kills cancer cells, but without any harmful effects to the body. According to the statements of many cured patients, soda as a cancer medicine is effective and simple, but please note that it should be administered under the supervision of alternative medicine doctors.
The process of using the therapy:
-Mix one part of baking soda with 3 parts of maple syrup,
-Then heat it over a low heat while stirring for about 10 minutes,
-Take 3 teaspoons daily for 1-2 months,
-During this procedure meat, white flour and sugar should be avoided.
Lemon and baking soda as a remedy against cold
To properly use the medical baking soda in combination with lemon, one teaspoon of sodium bicarbonate needs to be dissolved in 250 ml of water and then add it to a half a freshly squeezed lemon juice. Stir it well and drink it first thing tomorrow morning.
It has been shown that this simple recipe can reduce the duration of flu and colds, often eliminating the symptoms in 36 hours. Experts recommend this method of dosing which should not last longer than 3 days.
Alleviate the pain in the throat while swallowing:
Add half a teaspoon of baking soda in a glass of water and gargle your throat every four hours to reduce the amount of acids that cause the pain. Mouth washing with this solution will also alleviate the pain of unpleasant mouth ulcers.
For the immunity every night before bedtime drink a glass of water with one teaspoon of baking soda without aluminium with 500 mg of vitamin C in it. You will get an effervescent beverage that is great for immunity loss.
How to use baking soda for face treatment
Although it was primarily intended for use in the kitchen, baking soda is so versatile that it can be used for cosmetic purposes. It can be used as a substitute for many expensive treatments such as various peelings, or even teeth whitening. Small granules of baking soda will remove all the dead skin cells very gently, because it suits all skin types. It has an antiseptic effect like other natural salts.
Face mask with baking soda is very cheap and popular.
If you have a dry face make a dough and allow it to stand for about 2 minutes, and then apply it in a circular motion on the face and neck. Hold for about 3 minutes and then rinse your face with warm water and then cold to close the pores. Finally, apply a bit of moisturizer cream you use on a daily basis.
Those who are struggling with dry and quite sensitive skin should use this treatment every other week, and those who have oily and normal skin can repeat the treatment every week.
Face mask with lemon for pimples - another remarkable recipe
You need to squeeze half a lemon but without flakes, you need to get a clean lemon juice and then add one teaspoon of baking soda. In the morning, wash your face with lukewarm water, while still wet, rub soda on your face; watch that you rub evenly all over the face, especially areas where the skin is affected by acne. Leave it to stand on the face 5-10 minutes, until you feel a mild tension. After 10 minutes, rinse with warm water and wipe the face with a towel. Soak a piece of cotton in the lemon juice that you previously made. Apply it on your face and leave it to rest, do not wash it. Of course, there will be a burning sensation and when it stops, apply baby oil or cream on your face using a piece of cotton.
It would be best to do this in the evening in order to let your skin regenerate while you sleep. This mask should not be used more than once a week, because although it is effective, it is also aggressive. You will find out that you will slowly be resolved of all the irregularities on your skin.
Peeling treatment with baking soda
After peeling, the skin will be soft and the pores less visible. All you have to do is to mix the soda with a little water until you get a thick mixture. Gently rub the mixture into the skin using circular motions and then rinse.
It is extraordinary for hair care
That the baking soda for hair care is more than a good choice, we will convince you with the following recipe:
Create your phenomenal shampoo for deep cleaning, by adding one-fourth of soda to your shampoo. This will definitely help remove any undesirable residues that remain from the use of purchased hair care products. If you do not have time to wash your hair, you can use the medical baking soda as a dry shampoo to absorb oil and believe it or not you have saved your hair from exposure to your dryer for at least a full day. It is very simple, just sprinkle this effective white powder on the root of the hair and then comb well.
Baking soda for dandruff is also very effective; try this simple natural recipe to get rid of the accumulated dandruff. After the bath, while the hair is still wet rub a handful of soda into the hair and leave it for about 5 minutes, and then rinse thoroughly. After the third wash it will permanently remove dandruff.
To make your hair more beautiful and shiny, free of dirt, it is important that your brushes and combs that you use are washed properly. Put one teaspoon of soda in the basin with warm water, then wash your combs in it and allow them to dry.
Treatment with sodium bicarbonate: User experience
There are many domestic and foreign web sites, groups on social networks that use a keyword soda as a remedy for various ailments. Opinions are different, as well as the experiences of the beneficiaries of this remedy. In many cases they are positive, and here are a few tips:
People who have problems with heartburn should drink one teaspoon of baking soda every night before bedtime. One of our readers argues that since he started drinking soda his problems with heartburn stopped immediately. It has been proven that baking soda is an effective remedy for stomach.
Our other reader claims that baking soda helps with mosquito bites.
Do not scratch the painful, inflamed bite when you get bitten by a mosquito or other insects. Instead, mix some water with baking soda and put the paste on itchy area.
A bicarbonate paste may help to ease the itching in chicken pox.
Soothe the pain on the baby's behind
Babies with diaper rash feel better after soaking them in the baking soda bath. Add a little powder into the water for bathing babies. It reduces itching and helps the skin to heal faster.
Cool sunburns
Added to warm water, baking soda softens the water and creates a soothing bath.
Who should not use baking soda as a remedy?
Although it is mainly used in the kitchen, baking soda has other useful purposes. Sodium bicarbonate as we know it nowadays was produced in 1846 and since then its popularity until today has not gone down. Dr. Cheney was treating patients suffering from flue with this powder in the 20-ies. Since it is very cheap, easy to use, and is a solution to a number of problems, we find in every household.
Of course there are people who should not use baking soda without aluminium, they are:
-Children who are younger than 5 years,
-People who are diagnosed with severe kidney disease,
-Persons whose body is sensitive to sodium bicarbonate,
-People who have heart and liver disease or have high blood pressure.
-Pregnant women are recommended to seek advice from a doctor before consuming it
Is sodium bicarbonate harmful? Soda with aluminium can be dangerous to your health, if you use it in large quantities. It is therefore recommended to use the pharmaceutical soda without aluminium.
Where can you buy baking soda without aluminium and what is the price?
It would be best to buy it at the pharmacy or health food stores. This soda is a lot cleaner and there are absolutely no impurities so it is safe to use it. The label must say that it is a medical soda without aluminium. Its price is much higher than regular soda, so the packing of 400 grams costs about 10 dollars depending on the manufacturer. Almost every single soda that you can find in the stores has traces of harmful substances.
We hope that you found out how to use soda as a remedy. Prior to every use medical consultation is required.
Share this
Related Posts
Next
« Prev Post
Previous
Next Post »
Popular Posts
Climate change on Earth
Nail changes on hands
Lower back pain in women
Pistachios are the healthiest snacks
Trans-fats in the diet | good and bad cholesterol in the blood
The best teas for immunity against flue and colds
GASTRITIS DIET MENU
Fibers | Omega-3 fatty acids | Coenzyme Q10 | Healthy heart
How to get rid of ants using natural means without chemistry
Gallstone symptoms | treatment | nutrition | diet
Copyright © Ketogenic diet menu for easy weight loss All Right Reserved |
Created by Arlina Design
| Distributed By Gooyaabi Templates