Urine Trouble (If You Believe Any Of This Crap)-At The Bottom Of The World
At The Bottom Of The World
The Blog Of Leah Favela
New? Start Here!
About Me
Archives
Contact Me
You are here: Home / Expat Life / Urine Trouble (If You Believe Any Of This Crap)
Urine Trouble (If You Believe Any Of This Crap)
September 3, 2018 By Leah Favela 1 Comment
*I wrote this post really quickly since I have to go to work in a few minutes. Please excuse any grammatical mistakes. I’ll edit it later.*
Have you ever heard of urophagia?
No? Well, you’re about to be enlightened.
Urophagia, more commonly known as urine therapy, is the practice of drinking your urine to improve health and cure diseases.
In reading articles about this I found multiple references to it dating back to Hindu practices. However, I also read that the ancient Romans imbibed as well. They thought urine was a great way to whiten teeth and prolong life. The Romans didn’t limit themselves to personal urine, however. As a luxury, they imported in Portuguese urine and also had giant troughs in the marketplaces where citizens could drink and donate as they desired. The average age of an ancient Roman was 35 years so, though I can’t say anything about whether or not they had sparkly white teeth, I don’t think drinking pee really helped with increasing their life span.
Urine therapy was brought to my attention because I saw someone on Instagram posting about how they were about to embark upon a 30-day fast where they drank only their own. I couldn’t believe that this was actually a thing, so I’ve started reading about it.
What does it cure, you ask?
Well, according to the Chinese Association of Urine Therapy, urine is a panacea and can cure just about anything; flu, common cold, psoriasis, broken bones, toothaches, depression, Parkinson’s disease, hangovers, diabetes, postpartum depression, hepatitis, gout, asthma, eczema…BLOODY URINE. That last one really got me. How can you cure bloody urine? Why, by drinking your bloody urine, of course. What a silly question.
Believers of urine therapy also say it cures cancer. CANCER. There are trace amounts of antigens in urine, yes, but they are such a small amount. And, according to what I’ve read, your body actually has way more antigens in it than drinking your own urine could put back in. So no, it isn’t a miracle cure for cancer. I really feel bad for the people I’ve read about who have some type of super-aggressive cancer and stop all chemo because they think drinking their own urine will cure them. I didn’t come across ONE SINGLE PERSON who successfully cured themselves. What a surprise that is.
And why doesn’t anyone know about the miracle cure that is urine? Because Big Pharma and the medical community are keeping it a secret because there’s no money in it. It’s the same reason they’re hiding all these cancer cures that scientists keep discovering.
Is the medical industry all about making money? Sure. Most industries are. Do they overcharge for things? You bet your ass they do. Do I believe they are hiding the cure for AIDs or different types of cancer? Not for one second. But hey, that’s only my itty bitty opinion and I’ve never claimed to be the smartest gal on the planet.
Below is a video from JP Sears, a comedian who does satircial parodies of all sorts of “modern hippy” topics. I just love him. Take a few minutes to watch this video because he says things way better than I ever could.
While reading about urophagia I also came across a few other miracle health remedies….
Breatharianism is the belief that the body only needs air to survive. AIR!!! That’s it. The air in New Zealand is less polluted than the U.S. and food here is super expensive, so I might just have to go for a big life-style change.
One woman, Jasmuheen, who claimed to have lived on only air for months and months, said that it is possible because certain people have twelve rather than two DNA strands which allow them to process nutrients differently. When asked to prove this preposterous statement with a blood test she said that she, of course, was not referring to herself. Jasmuheen also failed a test organized by Australia’s 60 Minutes in the 90’s. When she was having trouble not eating by the third day she claimed it was because the hotel room she was in was near a motorway and the air was polluted and couldn’t give her the proper nutrients. So she was moved to a mountain retreat where her health continued to drastically decline and the test was ended.
Despite this debaucle, Jasmuheen wrote several books on the efficacy of breatharianism. Five deaths were directly linked to her publications but she said she was not at all responsible.
Then there is sun gazing in which people believe that if you stare at the sun, early morning or late evening only of course because otherwise you’d hurt your eyes, erradicates the need to eat food or drink water. There is actually a Netflix documentary out called Eating the Sun which follows one young man’s journey into this completely delusional world. I haven’t watched it, nor do I plan to because I think it’ll just raise my blood pressure waaaay too much.
I’ve got to head off to work so tomorrow I’ll tell you all about the last thing I discovered….intentional chocolate.
It will change your life.
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related posts:
“I’m Having The Thought That…..”
Life In Pink
Prostitutes and Free People
Filed Under: Expat Life
Comments
Nanette Sagastume says
September 3, 2018 at 2:24 pm
After a month of only drinking one’s own urine, I doubt that there would be any nutrient benefit to urine…On the other end, so to speak, there IS such a thing as fecal transplant where a healthy person’s fecal matter is transferred into the GI tract of someone who has intractable diarrhea from loss of their “good flora.” For real–but at least they’re not ingesting it! https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/gastroenterology_hepatology/clinical_services/advanced_endoscopy/fecal_transplantation.html
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
About Me
Want to learn more about me?
Follow Me
Facebook
Google+
Instagram
Twitter
Subscribe to my blog (it's free)
* indicates required
Email Address *
First Name
Last Name
Next
About Me
Archives
Contact Me
Hire Me
New? Start Here!
Recent Posts
Things You Never Knew You Could Do Yourself
Wendigo Chickens, BS Holidays, and Other Stuff
Things We Brought Back
Gaming Perverts
Private Love Caves and Other New Things
Copyright © 2019 · Leah Favela
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: