Tips for Getting Pregnant while Breastfeeding | ConceiveEasy.com
How it Works
Try it Free
Magazine
Reviews
Help
Cart
How it Works
Try it Free
Magazine
Reviews
Help
Trying to conceive?
Get pregnant fast!
Try it Free
Tips for Getting Pregnant while Breastfeeding
by Dr. Prabha Sahgal, MD
The Ultimate Guides
How To Get Pregnant Tips
Fertility Pills
Twins & Multiples
Fertility & Trying To Conceive
Fertility Vitamins & Herbs
TTC a Specific Gender
TTC After 35
Fertility Drugs & Treatments
Infertility & Fertility Problems
TTC After Birth Control
Ovulation
Male Fertility
Getting pregnant while you are still breastfeeding one child can be a challenging task. However, contrary to what many believe, it is not impossible. When you are wanting to get pregnant while breastfeeding, you might have to consider things that you hadn’t previously thought of, and you might have to change the way you do things, but it can be done. Read on for some tips. Claim Your 20 Free Pregnancy Tests – Click Here
Wait a while
We know, this probably isn’t what you wanted to hear. But, honestly, the easiest way to get pregnant while breastfeeding is to give your body time to adjust naturally, and to allow your ovulation cycles to return to normal. As long as your body continues to produce milk, your ovulation might be slowed.
Supplement with formula
Another thing that not every new mama will be comfortable with, but supplementing with formula is a way to “trick” your body into thinking you are not breastfeeding as much, and this can help your ovulation to return. The same is true for introducing baby food. Anything that you can do to space out the intervals of breastfeeding will help to reintroduce ovulation.
Find out if you’re ovulating
One of the most important getting pregnant tips is that timing is everything. You can not get pregnant, breastfeeding or not, if you don’t know when you are ovulating. There are several different ways to track your ovulation, from charting your basal body temperature to paying attention to your cervical mucus. You can also use an over the counter ovulation prediction kit to help you determine whether or not you are ovulating.
Stretch your nighttime feedings
One of the best ways to increase your chances of getting pregnant while breastfeeding is to find a way to stretch out the times between breastfeeding sessions, especially in the middle of the night. This is because your body produces the most prolactin between the hours of 1 and 6 am.
Nursing during that time will stimulate and increase prolactin production, decreasing your chances of getting pregnant. On the flip side, not nursing during that time frame will increase your chances of getting pregnant, because your prolactin levels will be lower.
Seek help
If you are still having trouble getting pregnant while breastfeeding, you might want to seek help from an outside source. For example, many women swear by acupuncture treatments as a way to help get pregnant while breastfeeding.
Still others choose massage as an alternative treatment method to help boost the chance of pregnancy. If you are having trouble getting pregnant while breastfeeding, it is also a good idea to talk to your doctor to see if he or she has any tips for you.
Dr. Prabha Sahgal, MD | ConceiveEasy
Dr. Prabha Sahgal MD, is board certified in obstetrics and gynecology and subspecialty board certified in reproductive endocrinology and infertility. Dr. Sahgal holds a B.S. degree from MIT in molecular biology and currently serves on the ConceiveEasy board of directors.
Must Read Articles
Good News! Overweight Better Than Under for Fertility
Scary Truth Behind BPA, Infertility, and Miscarriage
Can Acupuncture Boost Your Fertility?
7 Ways to Know If You Are Fertile
What Medicines Can I Take While Pregnant?
When Should You Freeze Your Eggs?
Is a Midwife Safer For Your Childbirth Outcome?
6 Reasons Why You Should Have a Homebirth
Help
How it works
Usage
Ingredients
Returns/Exchanges
Contact us
Education
Getting pregnant tips
How to use an OPK
Tips to conceive a boy
Tips to conceive a girl
Company
About Us
Our promise
Magazine
Reviews
Need assistance?
We’re available by phone (1-800-6-TTCKIT) and by chat
Monday - Friday, 9am to 5pm EST
Call FAQ Chat Email
facebook
pinterest
instagram
youtube
©
2019 ConceiveEasy, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of use & Privacy Policy