Urinary Tract Infection Specialist - Southern Westchester County New Rochelle, NY: Larry Roberts, MD: Urologist
Select Languages
914-236-0716 Book Online
Home
Meet Dr. Roberts
Awards and Accolades - Dr. Roberts
Services
General Urology
BPH
Prostate Conditions
Prostate Cancer
Incontinence
Kidney Stones
Men's Health
Women's Care
ED
View More Services
Blog
Testimonials
Patient Information
Patient Forms
Contact
Urinary Tract Infection Specialist
Larry Roberts, MD Our Services Urinary Tract Infection
Tweet
Larry Roberts, MD
Urologist located in Southern Westchester County, New Rochelle, NY
Though urinary tract infections (UTIs) mostly affect women, men become more prone to UTIs as they get older, often because of an underlying medical issue. At his practice in New Rochelle, New York, board-certified urologist Larry Roberts, MD, treats UTIs in the short-term and prevents them from coming back in the long-term. To get help for a UTI, call or click today.
914-236-0716
Book Online
Urinary Tract Infection Q & A
How do urinary tract infections affect men?
Urinary tract infections (UTI) occur when bacteria enter the bladder through the urethra. UTIs are far more common in women than men, with men accounting for only about 20 percent of diagnosed cases, and they’re extremely rare in young men.
UTIs largely affect men who are at least 50 years old, and for different reasons than women. Women are anatomically much more prone to contract UTIs through sex, which can easily introduce bacteria into the urinary tract. When men get UTIs, it’s usually because the bacteria that are already in their urinary tract can’t get out.
Younger men usually clear out the bacteria in their urinary tract through regular urination, preventing UTIs from developing. Many older men have difficulty urinating freely, especially because of an enlarged prostate, which places pressure on the urethra and bladder. Men who are uncircumcised or who have diabetes are also at greater risk of contracting UTIs, and infections are sometimes a complication of kidney stones.
What are the symptoms of a UTI?
UTI symptoms come on suddenly and include:
Uncomfortable urination, including burning sensations
Urinary urgency
Blood in urine
Lower abdomen pain (near the bladder)
UTIs can be either “simple” and “complicated.” A simple UTI means the urinary tract generally functions normally but has come into contact with bacteria. A complicated UTI is the result of an underlying medical condition and could spread to the kidneys or upper urinary tract.
When UTIs spread to other organs, they can cause further symptoms, including fever, chills, nausea and vomiting, and back pain.
Nearly all male UTIs are by definition “complicated” because they result from a condition that interferes with regular urination. When you have pain in your lower abdomen or urinary symptoms, it’s important to get treatment as soon as possible.
How are UTIs treated?
If Dr. Roberts determines that your symptoms are the result of a UTI, he’ll prescribe a course of antibiotics lasting at least 5-7 days. As with all antibiotics, you’ll need to take the entire course to get rid of any lingering bacteria, even after you start feeling better, which should take 2-3 days.
To help you avoid getting UTIs in the future, Dr. Roberts identifies and addresses any health problems that may have contributed to your UTI, including an enlarged prostate. He develops a long-term preventive treatment plan based on your related health concerns.
If you’re experiencing pain or urinary difficulty that may be the result of a UTI, don’t let it wait. Call or schedule an appointment online with Dr. Larry Roberts today.
Book Online
What we offer
Services
Men's Health
more info
Testosterone Therapy
more info
Incontinence
more info
Prostate Cancer
more info
Urinary Tract Infection
more info
BPH
more info
Kidney Stones
more info
ED
more info
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
Larry Roberts, MD, New Rochelle, NY
Phone (appointments): 914-236-0716 | Phone (general inquiries): 914-235-2929
Address: 175 Memorial Highway , Suite 3-2, New Rochelle, NY 10801
4.61/5
(33 reviews)
×