This Kitchen Cabinet Cure for Cancer Deserves a Look | Cancer Defeated CancerDefeated.com
Home
Newsletters
Books
About Us
Survivor Stories
Videos
Contact
Home /
Articles
/ This Kitchen Cabinet Cure for Cancer Deserves a Look
This Kitchen Cabinet Cure for Cancer Deserves a Look
By	Lee Euler	/	July 25, 2018
Evidence is mounting that a box of baking soda – the kind you can pick up at the grocery store for less than a buck – has more healing potential than multi-thousand-dollar manufactured drugs, and may hold a new key to staving off cancer.
I recently received a book called pHood for Life (a pun on “food,” just in case you missed the joke, as I did first time around). Available on Amazon, it’s written by Jenny Magnusson, who cured her own stage 2 breast cancer with a baking soda protocol. (She also ate a healthy organic diet, totally got sugar out of her life, took some supplements, exercised, followed a detoxification protocol, and learned to reduce stress – so it’s not all about baking soda).
The “baking-soda-plus” protocol succeeded for Jenny (and has for many other people) because baking soda plays a little-known role in fighting inflammation. Here’s how…
The same powder kids use to make volcanoes
creates riveting reactions in your body
Unless you’re new to this newsletter, you know about the growing mountain of evidence that inflammation within the body plays a key role in some of the most damaging chronic diseases of our era – including arthritis, heart disease, diabetes, Alzheimer’s, and of course, cancer.
And you also know diet plays a significant role in inflammation. People who eat more processed meats, sugary foods and drinks, and refined grains (which make up the bulk of the American diet, sadly), are at greater risk for these illnesses. According to a study from the Harvard School of Public Health, people who regularly eat these foods increase their risk of colorectal cancer by a whopping 32 percent.
Inflammation isn’t all bad, though. In fact, it’s one of our most powerful weapons against illness. Inflammation is a kind of living shield of defense against bacteria, irritants, and injured cells. For example, if you get a cut on your finger and bacteria are introduced to your body, your white blood cells – kind of like soldiers of the immune system – rush to the site and disarm the bacteria by showering it with toxic chemicals.
You experience this battle as pain, redness, heat, and swelling. It’s not pleasant, but it’s over pretty quickly and your skin heals.
The dark side of inflammation
Helpful as it may be, inflammation has a split personality. Chronic, persistent inflammation leads to debilitating diseases like psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis. These are diseases of an immune system gone amok. And when it comes to cancer, inflammation unfortunately helps in the spread of tumors and cancer cells throughout the body.
Cancer starts when a tumor begins to grow from just a tiny handful of mutated cells. The tumor then starts scavenging oxygen and nutrients from its surroundings. As they grow, those cancerous cells within the tumor begin to release chemical signals that entice immune cells like macrophages to infiltrate.
Why would a tumor want to attract macrophages, which are supposed to be our body’s defenders? It’s a long story, but cancer is able to flip some macrophages over to its side. They become traitors. And when those immune cells move in to the tumor, they prompt the growth of new blood vessels, thereby creating a buffet of oxygen and nutrients for the tumor to feast on.
Other elements of the immune system, like cytokines, prompt the growth of the stroma – kind of like a pillow – so the tumor has a safe place to rest. And still other inflammatory cells sprinkle the tumor with free radicals that damage even more DNA in the area, and may also start the process of tumor metastasis, or the spread of the cancer cells.
So while the immune system is a crucial part of our survival in a germ-infested world, cancer cells have the ability to hijack our immune system for their benefit.
The simplest treatments
are sometimes the most profound
That’s why this new research on baking soda is so riveting. Ever since the role of inflammation in cancer was discovered, scientists have been working to find a way to curb it when cancer is in the picture.
Recently, the Medical College of Georgia at Augusta University published research in the Journal of Immunology that showed a daily dose of baking soda may help reduce destructive inflammation.
The primary focus of these researchers was to look at shutting off the immune response in the face of autoimmune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis. What they found showed that a daily dose of cheap, over-the-counter baking soda seems to encourage the spleen to create an anti-inflammatory environment instead of the opposite.
Baking soda — sodium bicarbonate — stimulates your stomach to make more acid to digest your next meal, while tiny mesothelial cells that cover the spleen somehow communicate to that organ that a massive protective immune response just isn’t necessary.
In addition, after the subjects in the study drank water with baking soda for two weeks, researchers discovered that the population of macrophages (the immune cells) shift from promoting inflammation (by way of cells known as M1 macrophages) to reducing it (by way of M2 macrophages).
With a lowered inflammatory response, the thinking is that the risk of cancer also lowers. This seems particularly likely because the researchers in this study reported that baking soda appeared to lower the inflammatory response across all organs, from the spleen to the kidneys and including the blood.
The right way to drink baking soda
There’s not a lot of risk that goes along with taking baking soda, but if you decide you want to try it, it’s always smart to ask a doctor first – especially if you’re already taking drugs for cancer or any other disease. And I mean an alternative or integrative doctor, not a conventional one.
Recommended doses differ depending on who’s doing the recommending. I wish I could be more helpful in this regard, but it’s not a therapy I’m directly familiar with, nor do the numerous doctors we’ve interviewed use it clinically. It’s pretty much a home remedy.
Jenny Magnusson’s recommendation is one teaspoon in water, twice a day. Other protocols may recommend yet other doses. Do it on an empty stomach well after a meal, because it neutralizes stomach acid, and that’s not a good idea when you’re about to eat.
Make sure the powder is completely dissolved in the water, and then sip it slowly.
Jenny recommends this level of baking soda for just the first two or three weeks, then start cutting back. She used a home test for her pH levels (her level of acidity), and adjusted the baking soda, the food she ate, and other inputs to achieve the pH level she believes is healthy.
Readers of this newsletter may recall that I’m not a big fan of the acid/alkaline theory of cancer causation. There may be something to it, but as yet I feel there’s not enough evidence. Given the fact that Jenny was doing a great many other things to beat cancer (as all sensible cancer patients should) – and the fact that she had a relatively early-stage cancer — it’s impossible to weigh the role that baking soda played in her recovery.
I’m comfortable with certain home remedies for early-stage, slow-growing cancers – I did home remedies myself for prostate cancer. But it’s not without risk. Don’t put all your eggs in the baking soda basket, and move on if you don’t get results in a month or two.
Side effects could be gas, nausea, diarrhea, or stomach pain. I recommend you start slowly, sipping just one or two doses a day. And keep an eye out for more on baking soda and other inflammation remedies, as blocking inflammation is going to play a huge role in cancer prevention and treatment in the coming years.
Healthline website (see the references below) recommends a baking soda protocol for adults suffering from acid reflux — a half teaspoon dissolved in a 4-ounce glass of water. You can repeat the dose every two hours, and you want to avoid taking seven doses within one day – unless you’re over 60 years old, and then you don’t want to take more than three doses in a single day.
They also say this should be done for no more than two weeks – and, obviously, acid reflux is not the same as cancer.
Baking soda seems like a reasonable way to relieve acid reflux. After all, it’s the same stuff – sodium bicarbonate – that’s in Alka-Seltzer. However, I don’t know if it’s a long-term solution. I suspect it isn’t. (And don’t take Alka-Seltzer – it contains aspirin. Just take baking soda, if that’s what you have a mind to do, and if you need a pain reliever, take it separately.)
Best regards,
Lee Euler,
Publisher
References:
“Baking soda might stave off inflammation caused by autoimmune diseases, research finds.” By Tamim Alnuweiri, 30 April 2018.
“Can Store-Bought Baking Soda Really Treat Acid Reflux?” By Kristeen Cherney, 24 April 2018 for Healthline.
“Drinking baking soda could be an inexpensive, safe way to combat autoimmune disease.” 25 April 2018, Science News Daily
“Feeling the heat – the link between inflammation and cancer.” By Safia Danovi, 1 Feb 2013.
“New Research Links Cancer to These Inflammatory Foods.” By Gretchen Lidicker for MBGHealth.
Related Posts
The 7 Wonders that Cured Bettina’s Cancer
Apr 24, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Why There’s No Such Thing as Heart Cancer
Apr 21, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Popular Spring Flower Packs a Punch Against Cancer
Apr 17, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
A List of Herbs that Can Slow or Reverse Pancreatic Cancer
Apr 14, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Asbestos and Mesothelioma – The Full Story
Apr 10, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
You Need This Nutrient Before the Summer Sun Arrives
Apr 07, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Other Big Cause of Lung Cancer
Apr 03, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Strange, Little-Known Danger That’s in ALL Water
Apr 02, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
These Micronutrients Beat Cancer All by Themselves in Some Patients
Apr 01, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
About the author
Lee Euler
Hi I'm Lee Euler, I’ve spent over a decade investigating every possible way a person can beat cancer. In fact, our commitment to defeating cancer has made us the world’s #1 publisher of information about Alternative Cancer Treatments -- with over 20 books and 700 newsletters on the subject. If you haven't heard about all your cancer options, or if you want to make sure you don’t miss even one answer to this terrible disease, then join our newsletter. When you do, I'll keep you informed each week about the hundreds of alternative cancer treatments that people are using to cure cancer all over the world.
0comments
Click here to add a comment
Leave a comment:
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Comment
←Previous post Next post→
350 Alternative Cancer Treatments
I've compiled every known cancer treatment and put them ALL into one book: The Complete Guide to Alternative Cancer Treatments. Click below to find out how you can get a FREE copy.
Do You Have a Cancer-Prone Personality?
SEE QUESTION 1 OF 17
Join Our Newsletter!
Popular Articles
Could this Seed Really be ‘Cancer’s Worst Nightmare’?
This debunked cancer treatment may give you Alzheimer’s
If you feel you must do chemotherapy, please add this herb
Cancer Cells EXPLODE on Contact With This Non-Toxic Treatment!
The surprising #1 health problem in America
The Powerful CancerCure Locked Inside Your Cells!
Simple mineral wipes out cancer pain fast
Common spice kills 80% of prostate cancer cells
The ultimate cancer cure – banned in America
Dogs get cancer, too! Here’s what to do…
Fried foods and cancer: the new evidence
Yes, laetrile really works
Watch out for killer pomegranates!…
Can a water purifier cure cancer?
Common Garden Plant Doubles as Cancer Killer
Controversial celebrity cancer cure – does it work?
Food and drink containers that give you cancer
The Mother Goose home-style cancer treatment
Farrah Fawcett’s fatal mistake
Natural miracle prevents up to 99.4% of tumors
Exciting new proof this cancer cure works
Is your doctor a real doctor?
The 7 Wonders that Cured Bettina’s Cancer
Penny mineral melts away breast tumors and cysts
Detox and Lose Weight at the Same Time
Does oral chelation work?
OTC remedy cures skin cancer
Sugar, Cancer, and the Devil
My life in the drug culture
Massage cancer out of your body
Latest Survivor Story
Wonderful Choice for Me! - Kris Merlo Robinson
I went to the Hufeland German Cancer Klinik in March-April 2010 for 6 weeks, July 2010 for 3 weeks, and November 2010 for 3 weeks.
My follow-up treatment in March-April 2011 was great. I had a successful 9th fever therapy treatment. The ultrasound diagnostics taken on me look great, my tumor markers are extremely low and my follow-up blood work back in the States was nearly perfect!
I will return to Hufeland Klinik in July and have a 10th fever treatment. My plan is to then return to the clinic once a year for follow-up and a fever push or two. I continue on their maintenance plan and I work with naturopaths stateside to continue care.
Also, the administrators at Hufeland are working on a new website and have a Facebook page and I am helping them edit a beautiful brochure about their clinic.
Wonderful choice for me! Never missed a beat choreographing gymnastics since diagnosis.
Mrs. Kris Merlo Robinson
Latest posts
The 7 Wonders that Cured Bettina’s Cancer
April 24, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Why There’s No Such Thing as Heart Cancer
April 21, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Popular Spring Flower Packs a Punch Against Cancer
April 17, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
A List of Herbs that Can Slow or Reverse Pancreatic Cancer
April 14, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Asbestos and Mesothelioma – The Full Story
April 10, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
You Need This Nutrient Before the Summer Sun Arrives
April 7, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Other Big Cause of Lung Cancer
April 3, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Strange, Little-Known Danger That’s in ALL Water
April 2, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
These Micronutrients Beat Cancer All by Themselves in Some Patients
April 1, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Cancer-Fighting Food That’s Linked to Longer Life
March 24, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Copyright text 2017 by Cancer Defeated. - Designed by	Thrive Themes | Powered by WordPress
About Us
Publications
Support
Sitemap
Privacy Policy