Artificial Sweeteners and Your Health | Incline Chiropractic Natural Health Center
Incline Chiropractic Natural Health Center
Telephone No. (775) 831-5544, 894 Southwood Boulevard, Incline Village, NV 89451
Insurance Accepted
Testimonials
About Us
Articles
Contact Us
Newsletters
Products
Services
Artificial Sweeteners and Your Health
Aspartame was accidentally discovered in the 70’s while researchers were formulating an ulcer drug. It is a chemical food additive, not a food. In 1983 Aspartame was introduced to the US population in soda pop. Brain tumor incidence rose ten percent, while other cancers stayed the same, the same year. In 1988 eighty percent of food related complaints to the FDA were Aspartame related. It also goes by the brand names Equal and NutraSweet. Crystal Light and sugar-free Kool-Aid, diet sodas and sugarless gum are also products that use Aspartame as an artificial sweetener.
Aspartame breaks down into three chemicals inside your body, aspartic acid, phenylalanine and methanol. Aspartic acid over-stimulates the brain and nervous system. Some nerves over stimulate to the point of exhaustion and die. Phenylalanine disrupts the balance of natural chemical messengers in the brain. This change in ratios creates mood swings, seizures and brain tumors. The poisonous effects of the last chemical, methanol, wood alcohol, are well known. Methanol toxicity mimics multiple sclerosis symptoms and can cause hearing and visual problems. Methanol also turns into formaldehyde. Formaldehyde is an embalming fluid and is five thousand times more poisonous than the type of alcohol that we drink. Formaldehyde stores in the fat cells around the hips and thighs.
Aspartame disrupts protein production, DNA production, nerve communication and chemical messenger balance. It lowers the seizure and depression threshold and causes behavior and brain chemistry changes, making people who are already vulnerable more at risk. Common symptoms mimic multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus and fibromyalgia.
Everyone reacts differently, which makes diagnosis very difficult. Common symptoms include cloudy or foggy thinking. Even if you don’t consciously feel the effects, you will have mild effects at a sub-clinical level. It’s not a coincidence that many people diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and systemic lupus are heavy diet soda drinkers. Children are especially at risk and should not be given any Aspartame products.
Aspartame was approved for consumption through political manipulation, not safety standards. The makers of Aspartame fund the American Diabetic Association and the American Dietetic Association. People think that they are being health conscious when they consume diet related products. For some people, their symptoms improve with elimination. For others it does not. Why put yourself and family at risk? Say “No to artificial sweeteners”.
Like this:
Like Loading...
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Hours & Location
894 Southwood Blvd
Incline Village, NV 89451
(775) 831-5544
Monday: Closed
Tuesday: 8:00-1:00 pm
Wednesday: 12-5 pm
Thursday: 12-5 pm
Friday: 8:00-1:00 pm
Articles
About Us
Welcome
Articles
2009 Nobel Prize Anti-Aging Nutritional Advice
Case History of Pinched Nerve
Understanding Vegetables Cancer-Fighting Properties
Contact Us
Intake Form
Insurance Accepted
Newsletters
Products
Total Veggie
Services
About Chiropractic
Nutritional Supplements
Spinal Decompression Therapy
Testimonials
Blog at WordPress.com.
%d bloggers like this: