Revalgo – Cancer treatments you should know about!
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Revalgo
Baking Soda And Cancer
May 16, 2016 May 16, 2016 Revalgo	Leave a comment
Baking soda (Sodium Bicarbonate – NaHCO3) is a highly alkaline white crystalline substance. A salt composed of Sodium ions and bicarbonate ions, baking soda is widely used to raise/balance pH level of water in pools. It is also a disinfectant and effective fungicide against some fungus. Sodium bicarbonate is used in medicine as an antacid to treat high gastric acid levels, indigestion and heartburn. Also intravenous sodium bicarbonate is given in some cases of acidosis. Not only that baking soda is also used in the treatment of cancer in alternative medicine.
Baking Soda(Sodium Bicarbonate) for Cancer Treatment
Dr Tullio Simoncini – Pioneered baking soda use in cancer treatment
Dr. Tullio Simoncini is an Italian physician and oncologist who pioneered the use of Sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) in cancer treatment. Dr. Simoncini’s theory is that cancer is caused by the presence of fungus. Dr. Simoncini’s baking soda treatment for cancer is based on simple but solid scientific reasoning. Baking soda not only acts as an anti-fungal disinfecting agent, it also raises the pH of the body fluids making the body fluids more alkaline. It is a known fact that cancer cells cannot survive in an alkaline environment.
Dr Tullio Simoncini – Pioneered baking soda treatment for cancer
Dr. Tullio Simoncini’s basic tenets behind his cancer treatment methods are simple:
Cancer thrives in acidic environments => Baking soda is alkaline. Consuming baking soda with maple syrup raises alkalinity of body fluids => Cancer cells die off when body fluids are alkaline
Dr. Tullio Simonicini was ridiculed in his home country – Italy for claiming that cancer could be cured using baking soda. However, a lot of people seem to have benefited from his sodium bicarbonate based treatment methods for cancer. Dr.Simoncini treats tumors by identifying blood vessels that supply blood/nutrition to the tumors and injecting an intravenous solution of sodium bicarbonate into those blood vessels. He claims that sodium bicarbonate, when injected intravenously increases the pH in the tumor site. A temporarily raised alkalinity in the tumor site causes the cancer cells to die off, which in turn leads to gradual breakup of tumor and excretion of cancer cells as metabolic waste. Dr. Simoncini is the author of the book “Cancer is a fungus” in which he details his sodium bicarbonate based treatment methods for cancer. Dr. Simoncinis’ sodium bicarbonate cancer cure is well known in cancer related academic circles. Though many in the medical profession contest his baking soda based protocol, there are articles/testimonials in the internet claiming that baking soda has helped with cancers of many individuals.
Baking Soda (Sodium Bicarbonate) and black strap molasses protocol
Ingredients Required:
Maple Syrup (Or) Black Strap Molasses (Or) Raw Honey – 1 litre
Baking Soda (Sodium Bicarbonate) – Laboratory grade. Without aluminium
Black Strap Molasses
Baking Soda
Black strap molasses are always preferred. If it is not available then maple syrup or honey could be used in the place of molasses. The pH of the saliva/urine needs to be monitored very closely while following this highly alkaline protocol. Though pH strips can be used for this purpose, pH meter is preferred as it can give more accurate readings. Also, the health condition of the patient needs to be monitored closely by a trained physician while following the baking soda protocol. Do not attempt to follow the protocol without proper medical supervision.
An outline of the protocol goes like this:
Mix one tablespoon of baking soda and one table spoon of black strap molasses in a cup of water. Take the mixture two times daily before meals in the morning and evening. The mixture needs to be prepared fresh every time one takes it.
Take three readings of pH of Saliva, Urine three times (morning, afternoon, evening) daily. Record the readings in a table with clear labels of date, time etc.
As one starts taking the baking soda mixture one will see that urine/salivary pH raises gradually turning more alkaline.
Keep on 1 Tablespoon baking Soda + 1 Tablespoon black strap molasses routine for a weeks time taking the mixture twice a day.
If the urine/salivary pH reached 8.0, keep a close watch and try to maintain the pH between 8.0 and 8.5 for a weeks. Adjust the dosage of baking soda accordingly.
If the pH has not gone above 8.0 after a weeks time, gradually increase the consumption of baking soda to 2 teaspoons + 2 teaspoons black strap molasses at a time. This should increase the pH to 8.0 and above. Wind down the usage of baking soda to 1 tablespoon at a time once you successfully reach the target rage of 8.0 – 8.5.
After maintaining the target pH of 8.0 -8.5 for a week, stop taking the baking soda + black strap molasses mixture.
Here the theory is that black strap molasses / maple syrup acts as a carrier for baking soda as the cancer cells are more hungry and tend to take/burn more sugar than normal cells. Sodium bicarbonate, by raising the pH and making the body fluids alkaline makes the cancer cells survival tough. As a final note, please do not attempt to follow this protocol without proper medical supervision.
Note & Disclaimer: This website / authors do not provide any medical advice. This website/article is for informational purpose only. The information provided here is collated from multiple sources. Some of the details given here might be out-dated / incorrect. Revalgo.com does not accept any liability for the information provided. Please do your own research and use your discretion while availing treatments.
Aloe vera (Aloe Arborescens) and Cancer Treatment
May 12, 2016 May 12, 2016 Revalgo	Leave a comment
Aloe Vera / Aloe Arborescens
Aloe Vera / Aloe Arborescens is a plant widely used in cancer treatments. Aloe when taken in right amounts boosts the immune systems and helps fight/control not just cancer but other diseases related to weak immunity. Aloe Arborescens grows in hot tropical climates. Aloe is widely found in Asia, Africa, Australia, USA and tropical islands. Aloe is a stemless plant with thick fleshy leaves. The fleshy leaves have a gel inside that is widely used in traditional herbal medicine to treat variety of health conditions. Aloe is grown as a first aid plant in many civilizations to treat conditions like burns, ailments of gastro-intestinal tracts, excessive heat, diabetes, infertility, psoriasis and various skin diseases. Aloe Vera is called Kathalai / Natkumari in Ayurveda and Siddha traditions. Aloe has the ability to induce detox and get toxins out the body quickly. This in turn helps improve the natural immunity of the organism. Aloe is also a natural laxative.
Aloe Arborescens / Aloe Vera Plant
Aloe Vera is rich in vitamins A,B,C,D,E, beta-carotene and certain amino acids. It is also said to have anti-ageing properties.
Use of Aloe Arborescens / Aloe Vera in treating Cancer
Aloe Vera enhances the body’s ability to attack the cancer cells. It is also used to reduce the radiotherapy related skin burns when applied topically over the affected area. An extract called Aloe Emodin is found to block cancer cells in test tubes. Acemannan found in Aloe vera induces production of cancer killing cytokines. Acemannan also increase the production of nitric oxide that helps stabilize oxygen supply to the tissues. Aloe is known to shrink tumors and control cancer metastases. Cancer takes hold in the body when the immune system is not able to take on the cancer cells and when abnormal cells divide uncontrollably. Nutrients found in Aloe helps in restoring the natural immunity which in turn takes on the cancer. For example, polypeptides found in Aloe act as immune system stimulators. Polysaccharides found in Aloe helps to increase white blood corpuscles (WBC) that find foreign antigens inside the body. Research has shown that Aloe Vera use can increase both “killer cells” as “helper T-cells” that play a major role in fighting cancer and other immunity disorders. Hence Aloe Vera can suppress tumor growth and increase tumor cell necrosis levels. It also has lot of antioxidants that help control inflammation and oxidative stress. Aloe Arborescens consumption is known to alkalize the body taken and hence can make the survival of cancer cells difficult ( Cancer cells cannot survive in an alkaline environment). Aloe also helps relieve joint / muscle pains.
Aloe Arborescens Gel – Used in cancer treatment
Father Romano Zago
Father Romano Zago is a catholic priest from Brazil who developed the Aloe + Honey protocol to treat cancer inexpensively. Father Zago has also written a book “Cancer Can Be Cured” that details methods to treat/manage cancer using Aloe and various other herbs. Father Zago recommends Aloe Arborescens that contain glycoproteins Aloctin-A, Aloctin-B that is seen to inhibit fibrosarcoma in tests. Aloe Arborescens is rich in medicinal value than Aloe Vera. Father Zago has been advocating Aloe + Honey medicine for over three decades. Aloe + Honey is seen as a good cancer control medicine for the masses, especially in populations of low income. Father Zago’s work in popularizing Aloe + Honey treatment and taking it to masses is commendable!
Aloe Arborescens / Aloe Vera + Honey Recipe
Ingredients Required :
1) Half a Kilo of Aloe Arborescens or Aloe Vera leaf => Aloe Arborescens is more effective than Aloe Vera (as per Father Zago). But if Aloe Arborescens is not available, it should be Ok to use Aloe Vera. The leaves should be green and fleshy. Do not pick withered (yellow color/dry) leaves. Ideally the leaves should be taken from an Aloe plant that is atleast five years old. If older plants are not available then one may use leaves from younger plant.
2) Half a Kilo a raw honey => The honey should be raw and unheated. Synthetic or refined honey should never be used.
3) Five to eight tablespoons of pure alcohol (Whisky, Brandy, Rum) i.e around 50 ml alcohol.
Aloe Arborescens
Raw Honey
Alcohol (Brandy / Whisky / Rum)
Preparation:
Remove the thorns and spine from the Aloe leaves.
Thoroughly wash and clean the leaves with water
Cut the Aloe leaves into small pieces
Blend the cut Aloe leaves + Honey + 50 ml alcohol in a blender. Blend the mixture until the mixture until the leaves are finely ground.
Pour the mixture into an airtight container (preferably one made of glass) and refrigerate
Take two tablespoons (approximately 15 grams each time) of this mixture before meal three times daily. Do not store this mixture for more than 10 days. If the mixture is older than 10 days do not use it. Prepare a fresh mixture and use it for the next 10 days.
Frequently asked questions
1) Why should one take this mixture before meal and not after meal?
Usually, the body is relatively low in sugar before the meals. The honey in the mixture is the carrier and Aloe is the actual medicine. The digestive enzyme pepsin is ready to work before taking meals. The body absorbs the medicine better when the body is hungry for food.
2) How long can one keep taking Aloe + Honey mixture?
As long as cancer exists in the body.
3) What is the purpose of alcohol in the mixture?
Alcohol is used as a preservative
4) What should one expect while starting on this medicine?
Detox symptoms
5) What else could be done?
There are many alternative cancer treatments that could be used in tandem. We have information on few of these:
Annona Murricata / Graviola
Lakshmitaru (Simarouba Glauca) decoction
Please consult a good siddha, Ayurveda practitioner before taking any alternative medicine.
6) How can I help?
Please help us spread this message. Please share this info with your friends/relatives. Hit the share button at bottom of this page.
Consider following our Facebook, Google Plus, Twitter Pages:
facebook.com/revalgodotcom
twitter.com/revalgodotcom
Revalgo @ Google Plus
Note & Disclaimer: This website / authors do not provide any medical advice. This website/article is for informational purpose only. The information provided here is collated from multiple sources. Some of the details given here might be out-dated / incorrect. Revalgo.com does not accept any liability for the information provided. Please do your own research and use your discretion while availing treatments.
Graviola (Soursop / Annona Muricata / Guanabana) and Cancer Treatment
March 21, 2016 May 13, 2016 Revalgo	7 Comments
Soursop (aka Graviola / Guanabana) is the fruit of Annona Muricata, an evergreen tree native to central america. Soursop grows in certain parts of Africa, India, Southeast asia and pacific islands as well. The tree is from genus Annona and is in the Annonaceae family. Soursop has a flavor that is a mix of straberry, pineapple and citrus. Graviola is used in the alternative cancer treatment. The soursop tree is called Mullatha (corny custard apple). The fruit is called Lakshman phal and shul-ram-phal in Hindi.
Soursop / Graviola / Guanabana / Annona Muricatta
Graviola tree grows up to a height of about 40 feet and bears a heart shaped, green, spiky fruit with white fleshy interior. The white pulp has some fibers and black seeds. The white pulp of Graviola fruit has a sweet taste and can be consumed raw. It is also used to make smoothies, soursop fruit juice, candies and ice creams. Soursop products are widely available in the market under various brand names.
Graviola/Soursop Fruit – Health Benefits
The soursop fruit has good amounts of vitamin C, vitamin B1, vitamin B2 and fibers. Soursop fruits, leaves and barks are also used in the treatment of cancer in alternative/native medicine. Graviola is also used to treat viral infection, depression and sickness. The leaves and barks are widely used in traditional remedies. Soursop juice also used as diuretic in certain cultures and also in the treatment of urinary track infections. The decoction of the soursop leaves is used in the treatment of liver ailments, gallbladder diseases, coughs, diarrhea and indigestion.
The soursop leaves used as an analgesic and is known to relive pain. Soursop leaves have a substance called Trypophan that induces relaxation and sleepiness. Soursop leaves can be used in the treatment of mild insomnia. Soursop when taken in any form is know to raise the natural immunity of the body and hence is used in the treatment of common fold and fevers. Soursop leaves decoction is said to have cancer killing properties and is used in traditional medicine to treat cancer.
Soursop Tree / Graviola Tree / Annona Muricata Tree with flowers
Soursop Tree / Annona Muricata Tree with Graviola fruits
Graviola / Soursop and Cancer Treatment
Laboratory studies conducted on mice show that soursop leaf, fruit and stem extracts could be used as potential treatments to reduce/eliminate cancer cells. Soursop has a compound called Annonaceous acetogenins. Studies conducted by Purdue University have examined the anti-tumor properties of Annonaceous acetogenins and uncovered the cancer treatment potential of Graviola. Acetogenins have the potential to prevent cancer cells from producing energy (ATP molecules) that they use to feed the abnormal division and growth of cancer cells. Soursop is also known to raise the natural immunity of the body that helps in eliminating cancer cells naturally. The good thing about soursop is that it does its anti-cancer work, effectively targeting and killing malignant cells in different types of cancer, including colon, breast, prostate, lung, and pancreatic cancer without destroying the normal healthy cells in the body. Practitioners of alternative medicine use Soursop to take on the cancer cells without bringing down the organisms natural health.
Soursop Fruit
Soursop Fruit / Graviola Fruit – Cancer nutrition
Soursop fruit looks similar to to jackfruit but is very small in size compared to jackfruit. The fruits have small spiky thorns on the outside. The pulp inside the fruit is white. The seeds are black in color and is usually hard to break. The soursop fruit is rich in vitamins and antioxidants. Soursop fruits taken at regular intervals can help fight cancer. Some people say taking soursop fruits can augment chemotheraphy as the consumption of the fruits helps to raise the supply of cancer fighting agents and immunity. The fruits can be taken raw or could be made into a juice/milkshake.
Soursop Fruit (Nutritional value per 100 g) :
Carbohydrates 16.84 g
Sugars 13.54 g
Dietary fiber 3.3 g
Fat 0.3 g
Protein 1 g
Thiamine (vit. B1) 0.07 mg (6%)
Riboflavin (vit. B2) 0.05 mg (4%)
Niacin (vit. B3) 0.9 mg (6%)
Pantothenic acid (B5) 0.253 mg (5%)
Vitamin B6 0.059 mg (5%)
Folate (vit. B9) 14 μg (4%)
Choline 7.6 mg (2%)
Vitamin C 20.6 mg (25%)
Calcium 14 mg (1%)
Iron 0.6 mg (5%)
Magnesium 21 mg (6%)
Phosphorus 27 mg (4%)
Potassium 278 mg (6%)
Sodium 14 mg (1%)
Tryptophan 0.011 mg (4%)
Soursop Tea
Soursop tea made from boiling small quantities of soursop leaves helps with mild cases of cold, fever and headaches. Soursop teas are available these days as branded products. Teas made from fresh Graviola leaves are always better.
Soursop Tea for Cancer / Graviola Tea for Cancer
Soursop Leaf Extract/Decoction for cancer
Soursop leaf extracts and decoction made by boiling graviola leaves are widely used in traditional medicine to treat cancer. The decoction taken over a period of 3 to 6 months is said to help in the elimination of cancers of stage I, II and III. The soursop medicine is known to act mainly on abnormal and cancerous cells. Hence taking the decoction helps to treat cancer without any adverse side effects on the overall health of the organism. The decoction could be used as a regular health supplement for cancer patients and is said to improve the susceptibility of cancer cells for other cancer drugs. Hence taking graviola decoction can improve the effectiveness of chemo drugs in treating cancer.
Graviola/soursop decoction is prepared as follows:
Take 5 to 8 leaves of Graviola and wash the leaves to remove any impurities
Shred the leaves into small pieces using a shredder or knife
Put the shred leaves into a clean stainless steel vessel. Add 300 ml of clean water.
Boil in low flame for 30 minutes. Boil until the water level drops to half of the initial volume i.e 150 ml. Keep the vessel covered with a stainless steel plate while boiling the leaves.
Allow the decoction to cool down. Filter the decoction using a clean cloth or stainless steel filter
Above prepared decoction is to be consumed in empty stomach in the morning for maximum effect. The decoction needs to be prepared everyday using fresh leaves. If fresh soursop leaves are not available shade-dried soursop leaves as the ones shown below can be used.
Shade-drided soursop / graviola leaves
The decoction needs to be consumed everyday for maximizing the net health effect. The number of soursop leaves used for a single preparation and the volume of water used needs to be adjusted based on the age/weight of the patient.
A quick FAQ on Soursop/Graviola Decoction
1) Can Graviola (soursop) tea/soup cure cancer?
Soursop can help improve the condition of cancer patients. It may cure cancer depending on the type, aggressiveness, stage of cancer and general condition of the patient.
2) Can soursop tea / decoction be taken with other alternative cancer treatments?
Yes. Soursop decoction can be taken with other alternative cancer treatments. But always take the advice of your doctor/medical practitioner.
3) Can soursop be taken with Chemotheraphy?
Maybe. Please consult your doctor before taking soursop while undergoing chemotherapy. But one can always take soursop fruit without any adverse side effects
4) Will soursop help people with advance stages of cancer?
Yes. Soursop can help people at any stage of cancer. Soursop can bring quick recovery in early stage patients and a little bit of a slower recovery in advance stage patients. It also helps to improve immunity and control the growth of tumors.
5) Are there any side effects while taking Soursop tea/decoction?
One might have detox symptoms (like diarrhea, mild cold, mild fever) when they start taking Soursop decoction. These detox symptoms will settle down in couple of weeks time. And then health and associated well-being should improve gradually. And soursop can help reduce the side effects of traditional treatments in advance stage cancer.
6) Does taking soursop bring any side effect?
Soursop is a common edible fruit. It has no side effect when taken in limited quantities. But in rare cases taking soursop in large quantities for a long time may induce neurotoxicity. One needs to be moderate in their consumption of soursop and use their due diligence.
7) Does soursop help prevent cancer?
Yes. Soursop can help prevent cancer by eliminating micro-cancers early in the stages of cancer development. Moreover taking soursop raises immunity which helps with many health conditions and not just cancer
8) Can soursop be consumed during pregnancy?
Better to be safe than sorry. Information on whether it could be consumed during pregnancy is unclear. Please consult your doctor before consuming soursop during pregnancy.
9) Can people with low blood pressure take soursop?
Soursop when taken lowers the blood pressure. So, people with low blood pressure should not take soursop or at least maintain caution with the quantity taken.
10) What are the forms in which soursop is available in the market?
a) Fresh soursop leaves b) Shade dried soursop leaves c) Graviola fruit juice d) Soursop leaf tea e) Graviola leaf extract f) Graviola capsules
11) How soon can one expect results?
Typically in a month’s time
12) How long should one take the soursop soup to achieve good results?
Patients see good improvements in health in about 6 months time. One can take graviola soup for a year and half in moderate amounts without any adverse side effects. But always consult a good naturopath or traditional medicine practitioner if are taking graviola for more than 6 months.
13) Where can one get graviola products?
Graviola products like graviola leaves, graviola fruit juice, graviola tea, graviola capsules are available in online market places. Please search in google and you should be able to find graviola produts for sale.
14) Are dried graviola leaves as effective as green leaves?
Yes. Some herbalists say shade dried graviola leaves when used to make tea/soup are more potent than green leaves. Always adjust the dosage of soup or number of leaves used to make graviola soup if you see any hyper-effects of treatment.
15) Whom should I consult while taking Graviola (Soursop) products?
Ayurvedic medical practitioners, Naturopaths, Siddha Medicine practitioners are well informed about the use of Graviola in traditional medicine. So you better consult these.
Anymore questions…please leave a comment or send us an email.
What else could be done?
There are many alternative cancer treatments that could be used in tandem. We have information on few of these:
Shimoga Dr.Narayana Murthy’s cancer treatment
Lakshmitaru (Simarouba Glauca) decoction
Aloe + Honey mixture
Please consult a good Siddha, Ayurveda practitioner before taking any alternative medicine.
How can I help?
Please help us spread this message. Please share this info with your friends/relatives. Hit the share button at bottom of this page.
Consider following our Facebook, Google Plus, Twitter Pages:
facebook.com/revalgodotcom
twitter.com/revalgodotcom
Revalgo @ Google Plus
Note & Disclaimer: This website / authors do not provide any medical advice. This website/article is for informational purpose only. The information provided here is collated from multiple sources. Some of the details given here might be out-dated / incorrect. Revalgo.com does not accept any liability for the information provided. Please do your own research and use your discretion while availing treatments.
Lakshmi Taru (Simarouba Glauca) Cancer Cure
January 1, 2016 May 13, 2016 Revalgo	8 Comments
Simarouba Glauca is a medium sized tree native to South America. The common name is Paradise tree. It is also called Lakshmi Taru (लक्ष्मी तरु) in Hindi and Sourga Maram (சொர்க்க மரம்) in Tamil. The tree grows well in sunny regions and needs no special care. Simarouba leaves and leaf extracts are used traditionally by native populations in treating various ailments like fever, dysentery, cold etc. The decoction of the leaves is said to raise the natural immunity of the body so well that the patients could fend themselves off from common ailments.
Lakshmi Taru / Simarouba Glauca
Simarouba Cancer Cure
Simarouba decoction is also used in traditional medicine in the treatment of cancer and tumors. Simarouba leaf decoction when taken in limited amounts can raise the immunity, reduce appetite loss and increase quality of life in cancer patients. It can also be used to complement modern cancer treatment. Simarouba Glauca has very good anti-bacterial, anti-tumorous properties. Hence Simarouba is very effective in reducing the size of tumors and secondary infections in cancer patients. It is very effective in curing cancer of first/second stages, whereas in later stages it can considerably increase the quality of life.
Quassinoids (ailanthinone, glaucarubinone, and holacanthone) found in Simarouba has anti-leukemic (against blood cancer) properties. Glaucarubinone has also been found to improve mitochondrial metabolism and hence improve energy levels. Early cancer screening performed by the National Cancer Institute in 1976 indicated that an alcohol extract of simarouba had toxic actions against cancer cells at very low dosages (less than 20 mcg/ml). In south america, the leaves and bark of Simarouba are used as a powerful digestive aid. There are two varieties (red and white) of Simarouba. Both of them are equally good in treating cancer.
Simarouba Glauca Leaves
Syamasundar Joshi and Shantha Joshi, two retired agricultural scientists from Bangalore are the Simarouba pioneers in India who have been advocating the use of this tree in the treatment of cancer and various other health conditions.
Lakshmi Taru Tree / Paradise Tree / சொர்க்க மரம் / लक्ष्मी तरु
Preparation of Simarouba Decoction
Take 3 leaves of Simarouba per 10 kilogram body weight. For example, if the patient is of weight 60 kilograms the decotion needs to be prepared using 18 leaves.
Clean the Simarouba leaves of any impurities by rinsing in water
Pour 250 ml of water into a stainless steel vessel. Add the leaves to the water
Boil the mixture in low flame until the water level reaches half the initial volume i.e 125 ml
Cover the vessel using a stainless steel plate and leave it overnight (The decoction needs to be prepared the previous day evening)
Next morning, reheat the decoction and filter using a tea filter or clean cotton cloth. Consume the decoction in empty stomach
Add 250 ml of water to same pieces of leaves and repeat step 4
Cover the vessel using a stainless steel plate and leave it until evening.
Filter the decoction in the evening and consume
Discard the leaves.
Prepare fresh decoction for next day (i.e start from step 1).
Take this decoction daily both in the mornings as well as in the evenings.
Few questions and answers
How soon will one see improvements in health after starting on the Simarouba cancer medicine?
One can expect noticeable health improvements in about a month’s time after starting on this decoction
Where can one buy/get the leaves?
The leaves are available online. It is available in few places in Bangalore. Also, Simarouba is grown as an ornamental tree in many places. Please check with local nurseries.
Will Simarouba help with indigestion?
Yes. It helps to improve digestion and appetite.
What are the other medicinal uses of Simarouba?
Ulcers and bleeding in alimentary system
Gastritis caused by Helicobacter pylori
Hyperacidity, Dyspepsia
Amoebiasis, Diarrhoea, Colitis
Chikungunya, H1N1, Herpes, Colds, Hepatitis, Malaria, Fever
Hemorrhage, Anemia, Rheumatoid arthritis
Please note that Simarouba herbal tonic could be used in conjunction with other herbal preparations to increase the immunity and overall well being of the patients. Always consult an expert herbal practitioner before taking Simarouba or any other herbal treatments for that matter.
What else could be done?
There are many alternative cancer treatments that could be used in tandem. We have information on few of these:
Shimoga Dr. Narayana Murthy’s cancer treatment
Graviola(Annona Muricata) decoctionAloe + Honey mixture
Aloe + Honey mixture
Please consult a good Siddha, Ayurveda practitioner before taking any alternative medicine.
How can I help?
Please help us spread this message. Please share this info with your friends/relatives. Hit the share button at bottom of this page.
Consider following our Facebook, Google Plus, Twitter Pages:
facebook.com/revalgodotcom
twitter.com/revalgodotcom
Revalgo @ Google Plus
Note & Disclaimer: This website / authors do not provide any medical advice. This website/article is for informational purpose only. The information provided here is collated from multiple sources. Some of the details given here might be out-dated / incorrect. Revalgo.com does not accept any liability for the information provided. Please do your own research and use your discretion while availing treatments.
Shimoga cancer cure – Vaidya Narayana Murthy’s herbal cancer treatment
November 20, 2015 May 13, 2016 Revalgo	475 Comments
Narasipura Vaidya Narayana Murthy, Shimoga
Devastating it is to receive a cancer diagnosis. The feelings of shock, pain, confusion, hopelessness…cancer diagnosis rob life away from the patients and their loved ones. It is usually horrible waiting for results of cancer related tests – biopsy, bone scan, PET scan, blood tests etc. After the initial shock, confusion and acceptance the patients and their loved ones are made aware of the available treatment options, side effects of treatments, survival rate and life expectancy after treatments. Treatment options depend on the type, staging, aggressiveness, location of the cancer and the age of the patient. In general treatment would be a combination of available options: Surgical removal of cancer, Chemotherapy, Radio Therapy, Hormonal Therapies etc. These are the treatment options that most people choose. Lucky ones do get their cancers cured. But enduring the treatment (in the case of chemotherapy, radiotherapy) could be quite daunting and in many causes break the patient’s will to live. Not only that, Cancer treatments are usually expensive and can bring quite a financial strain on the family and loved ones.
But wait, Can cancer be treated with relatively lesser pain for the patient and with lesser financial resources? Are there any effective alternative medicines available that can improve the patient’s health substantially? The answer is “Yes” for both the questions. Vaidya Narayana Murthy is one such practitioner who seems to be dispensing effective ayurvedic medicine for treating cancer.
Vaidya Narayana Murthy
Mr. Narayana Murthy is an Ayurveda practitioner living in a village called Narasipura in the Shimoga district of Karnataka, India. Vaidya Narayana Murthy and his family members have been treating for decades, with herbal medicines, the so called incurable medical conditions – cancers, diabetes, heart diseases, kidney diseases etc. Vaidya Narayana Murthy is famous, particularly for his cancer treatments. The doctor dispenses medicines on Thursdays and Sundays. People gather in queues to receive his cancer medicines, which he starts dispensing early in the morning around 7AM. Roughly about thousand people receive their medicine on every Thursday and Sunday. There are few NGOs that help Vaidya Narayana Murthy in his noble effort.
shimoga cancer cure
Mr.Narayana Murthy’s medicines are primarily from plant/herbal sources. His cancer medicine is prepared by powdering barks, stems and leaves from certain plants and trees. The patients need not come in person to receive the medicine. Friends and family members can bring the lab reports / information on the patient’s condition and collect the medicines. The doctor usually dispenses medicine sufficient enough for a month and asks the patients/representatives to visit again after a month’s time. The doctor has been treating cancer for a few decades now and his treatments have helped a lot of cancer patients. In general, people are very positive about his treatments. One can hear many stories of improved health and cancer cures from thousands of people who gather to receive medicine at his doorstep.
Village Narasipura is about an hour’s journey by road from Shimoga. The nearest railway station is Anandapura (Station code – ANF). Shimoga can be reached by road as well as by train. Bangalore and Mysore are the nearest airports. The doctor doesn’t provide any appointments. And the patients are served in a first-come-first-served basis.
Here is an interview of Mr. Narayana Murthy :
FAQ on Narayana Murthy’s Treatment
I have a question that is not answered here? What do I do?
Please write to revalgo@revalgo.com. We will try to get your queries answered.
What is the exact address?
Shri. Vaidya Narayana Murthy,
Village Narasipura,
Anandapura, Sagar Taluk,
Shimoga District,
Karnataka, India
On what days of the week the medicines are dispensed?
Thursdays and Sundays only.
At what time should I reach village Narasipura to receive the medicines?
The medicines are dispensed starting early in the morning (like 7AM). But sooner you reach the place the better it will be as there will be lesser number of people in front of you in the Queue. People come as early as 3AM in the morning and stand in the Queue. Few people arrive the previous day evening and wait until morning to receive the medicine. The queue usually gets around 200 to 300 people by 7AM.
How long is the Queue?
The queue usually gets longer around noon and in the evenings reaching around 500-600 people.
How far is Village Narasipura from Shimoga and Anandapura?
From Anandapura – 6 Kms
From Shimoga – 65 Kms
How to reach Narasipura by road from Shimoga?
Shimoga => Anandapura => Narasipura
How to reach Narsipura by train?
Take a train that goes to Anadapura (ANF). Alight at Anandapura and take private transport (Auto, Taxi) to Narasipura which is about 6 Kms from Anandapura. There are share autos available at Anadapura railway station to reach Narasipura.
The Talagappa express trains (from Bangalore, Mysore) pass thru Anandapura station. Check the Indian railways website for the trains available to reach Anandapura.
How far is Shimoga / Anandapura from Bangalore?
Shimoga – 280 Kms, Anandapura – 340 Kms
Which are the nearest airports?
Bangalore International airport
Mysore
Coimbatore
Which is the nearest Petrol station?
Anandapura
Where are the nearest hotels / lodges and other accommodation?
Anandapura has couple of hotels / lodges. But it usually gets crowded. If you are planning to stay, better stay in Shimoga and travel by road to reach Narasipura.
Where are the nearest restaurants?
Anandapura
Are there any shops/hotels in Narasipura?
Yes. There are couple of small shops in Narasipura where you can get biscuits, snacks, breakfast and tea. But if you really want to have a proper meal you better dine in the hotels in Anandapura.
Are there any places of stay in Narasipura village?
No
How is the weather like in Shimoga / Anandapura / Narasipura?
It rains often. It gets really cold in the night. Bring your sweaters, raincoat / umbrella.
Are there any public toilet/washroom facilities available in Narasipura for the patients who come to receive medicine?
No.
At what time does the doctor stop dispensing medicines?
They dispense medicines as long as there is a last man in the Queue.
Is the same medicine available anywhere else?
No. Some people say few other doctors dispense similar medicine. But it is better to get the medicine from somebody who has treated thousands of patients. Mr. Narayana murthy’s treatment results are statistically significant as he has treated a large number of patients over a period of few decades.
How much do they charge for the medicine?
Few hundred rupees. Last time, when we checked it was 300 rupees.
Do the patients need to come in person to receive the treatment / medication?
No. It is sufficient if a family member or a friend visits the doctor with all the test results and reports.
Do they give any preferential queue for children / disabled / old age people?
Yes. But they let in disabled/old age people on a case by case basis.
How long does one need to wait in the Queue to receive medication?
It depends. If you get there early in the morning you wait for relatively lesser time (like 3 hours). But if you arrive late, your wait times could be anywhere between 3 hours and 6 hours.
Are there any token system for people waiting in the Queue?
No. Unfortunately 🙁
What exactly do the patients receive?
i) Medicines & ii) printed instructions on how to take the medication in your preferred language (English, Kannada, Tamil, Hindi etc)
I do not speak Kannada. Do I need to bring a translator?
The doctor speaks multiple languages. As long as you can converse in any of these languages you should be ok: Kannada, English, Hindi, Tamil, Malayalam
How long does one need to take the cancer medication?
It depends on the patient’s health condition. It could be anywhere from 6 months to few years.
How long does one need to take the medication before they see improvement in health condition?
Again it depends on the patient’s health condition. People usually notice improvements in few months time.
How often do I need to travel to Narasipura to receive medicine?
The doctor usually dispenses a month’s worth of medicine at a time. One would need to visit Narasipura every month to receive medicine
How much effective is the medicine? Did anybody get any cure?
Lot of people seem to have their health condition improved after taking Mr. Narayana Murthy’s medicine. People who have taken the medicine earlier or taking it now are in general positive about the medicine and the treatment. But there are no guarantees.
What are the diseases treated?
Cancer, Diabetes, Kidney related diseases etc
Can a patient undergoing Chemotherapy / Radiation Therapy take the herbal cancer medicine?
Please consult with the doctor.
What else could be done?
There are many alternative cancer treatments that could be used in tandem. We have information on few of these:
Annona Murricata / Graviola
Lakshmitaru (Simarouba Glauca) decoction
Aloe + Honey mixture
Please consult a good siddha, Ayurveda practitioner before taking any alternative medicine.
How can I help?
Please help us spread this message. Please share this info with your friends/relatives. Hit the share button at bottom of this page.
Consider following our Facebook, Google Plus, Twitter Pages:
facebook.com/revalgodotcom
twitter.com/revalgodotcom
Revalgo @ Google Plus
Note & Disclaimer: The author of this article received medicine from Mr. Narayana Murthy for a loved one who is suffering with cancer. This website / authors do not provide any medical advice. This website/article is for informational purpose only. The information provided here is collated from multiple sources. Some of the details given here might be out-dated / incorrect. Revalgo.com does not accept any liability for the information provided. Please do your own research and use your discretion while availing treatments.
Cancer treatment info
April 30, 2015 July 3, 2015 admin	4 Comments
This blog will cover info on cancer treatments / doctors / hospitals.
In our first post we will cover – Dr. Vaidya Narayana Murthy (Village Narasipura, Anandapura, Shimoga, Karnataka, India)’s treatments 🙂
Search for:
Recent Posts
Baking Soda And Cancer
Aloe vera (Aloe Arborescens) and Cancer Treatment
Graviola (Soursop / Annona Muricata / Guanabana) and Cancer Treatment
Lakshmi Taru (Simarouba Glauca) Cancer Cure
Shimoga cancer cure – Vaidya Narayana Murthy’s herbal cancer treatment
Recent Comments
Sudhakar on Shimoga cancer cure – Vaidya Narayana Murthy’s herbal cancer treatment
Sudhakar on Graviola (Soursop / Annona Muricata / Guanabana) and Cancer Treatment
Sudhakar on Shimoga cancer cure – Vaidya Narayana Murthy’s herbal cancer treatment
Sudhakar on Shimoga cancer cure – Vaidya Narayana Murthy’s herbal cancer treatment
Sudhakar on Shimoga cancer cure – Vaidya Narayana Murthy’s herbal cancer treatment
Archives
May 2016
March 2016
January 2016
November 2015
April 2015
Categories
Aloe Arborescens / Aloe Vera
Alternative Cancer Treatment
Annona Muricata
Baking Soda / Sodium Bicarbonate
Cancer Herbs
Cancer Treatment
Graviola
Guanabana
Shimoga Cancer Treatment
Simarouba Glauca
Soursop
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
sparkling	Theme by Colorlib Powered by WordPress