Skin Tags, DPN, Wart Removal Treatment in Bangalore
Call Now: (800) 123-4444 "Dr. Divya Sharma will be on leave
till August end and will be
resuming the consultations from first week of September "
Home
About
About Dr Divya’s Skin & Hair Solutions
Why Dr Divya’s Skin & Hair Solutions
About Dr Divya Sharma
Services
Skin & Medical Dermatology
Acne and Acne Scars
Eczema
Fungal Infection
Hyperhidrosis
Keloids
Moles
Neurodermatitis
Pigmentation
Psoriasis
Rosacea
Seborrheic Dermatitis
Skin Cancer
Skin Growths
Urticaria
Viral Warts
Vitiligo
Hair and Nail
Alopecia Areata
Body
Pediatric Dermatology
Hair Removal
Laser FAQs
LightSheer Desire
Aesthetics
Chemical Peels
Skin Tags, DPN & Wart Removal
Derma Know how
media coverage
Articles in Magazines
Newspaper coverage
Blog
FAQs
Gallery
Videos
Contact Us
Home
Skin Tags, DPN & Wart Removal
What are skin tags?
Skin tags (acrochordons) are small flesh-coloured or brown growths that hang off the skin and look a bit like warts. They’re very common and harmless.
Skin tags can vary in size from a few millimetres up to 5cm wide.
They’re usually found on the neck, armpits, around the groin, or under the breasts. They can also grow on the eyelids or under the folds of the buttocks.
Why skin tags occur?
Anyone can develop skin tags, but they’re particularly common in older people and people with diabetes. Pregnant women may be more likely to develop skin tags, caused by changes in their hormone levels. Some people develop them for no apparent reason.
Skin tags tend to grow where skin rubs against skin or clothing. This would explain why they also tend to affect overweight people or younger children who have excess folds of skin and skin chafing.
When can skin tags be a problem?
Skin tags are harmless and don’t usually cause pain or discomfort.
However, you may want to consider getting them removed if they are
a) Looking unsightly and affect your self-esteem, or
b) If they snag on clothing or jewellery and bleed.
Removing skin tags
If a skin tag is upsetting you, consider making an appointment with a Dermatologist to have it removed.
Electrofulguration and electrodessication with Hyfrecator for DPN’s, freckles, plain warts and skin tags; bloodless surgery for excision of skin cancers and benign growths with radio frequency
Don’t attempt to remove large skin tags yourself because they will bleed heavily.
Skin tag or wart?
Here’s how to tell the difference:
Skin tags are smooth and soft, whereas warts tend to be rougher with an irregular surface.
Skin tags are knobbly and hang off the skin, whereas warts are usually flat.
Skin tags aren’t contagious, but warts spread very easily, so a sudden outbreak or cluster of growths is more likely to be warts.
For safe and painless wart removal you can visit Dr. Divya’s Skin & Hair Solutions in Bangalore.
Enquire Now
Skin and Hair Solutions has been conceived and developed by one of the best dermatologist in Whitefield , Bangalore Dr Divya Sharma, MD. The aim is to provide comprehensive solution and excellence in dermatology, pediatric dermatology and trichology in the fast dwindling art of practising genuine Dermatology.
Dr. Divya's Skin & Hair Solutions Clinic
#575 GTR Complex, Second Floor, C Block, Brookfield,
AECS Layout, Marathahalli, Bengaluru,
Karnataka 560037, India
Faq's-Quick Links
Do’s and Don’ts for damaged hair
FAQs on chemical peels
Pediatric Dermatology
Acne: Do’s and Don’ts
Skin Tags
Hyperhydrosis
Quick Links
Skin & Medical Dermatology
Hair & Nail
Body
Pediatric Dermatology
Aesthetics
Contact Us
Appointment Request
Use the contact us or Online Appointment system to book an appointment with Dr Divya
+91-9620638388
+91-080-49565612
Have Question?
Submit your question below about any cosmetic procedure or skin, hair, body treatment.
Ask Questions
Locate Us
Powered by Copyright @ 2019. All Rights Reserved.
Disclaimer