Himalayan Salt Lamp: Does It Really Work?
Toggle navigation
Solar
Climate Change
Transportation
Renewable Energy
Weather
Sustainable Living
Travel
Recycling
Health And Fitness
Lifestyle
Healthy Eating
Home And Garden
Family
Natural Beauty
Environment
Animals
Politics
Innovation
Weird News
Elon Musk
News
About
Write For Us
what are you searching for?
by: Shayla Brooks
April 12th, 2017
share article
Home
Health And Fitness
Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Really Work? Here’s What I Discovered
Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Really Work? Here’s What I Discovered
These lamps allegedly cure everything from allergies to anxiety.
Modern life can be stressful. Finding time to decompress amidst a blizzard of full-time work, personal projects, and social pursuits can seem almost impossible.
What if the solution for this exhaustion were as simple as flipping the switch on a Himalayan salt lamp?
That was the premise of a blog my mom recently posted on my Facebook wall. She also mentioned she happened to have one and was willing to send it my way.
Like the skeptic I am, I rebuffed her offer. But she wasn’t giving up so easily.
“Just google it,” she said. So I did. After browsing through pages of pseudoscience, cures, and other woo, I decided there were more productive ways to manage stress than a Himalayan salt lamp.
A few weeks later, a care package arrived at my door. Amidst the wooden Christmas decorations lovingly handcrafted by my dad, birthday presents, and sweet treats, there it was: a translucent pink crystal perched on a wooden base with white cord running from it.
Inspired by my mom’s persistence, I decided to learn more about the Himalayan salt lamp and their alleged benefits.
Alleged Himalayan Salt Lamp Benefits
If unsourced blogs and pins on Pinterest are to be believed, a Himalayan salt lamp is a magical panacea. The internet promises this humble lamp can cure everything from anxiety to allergies to autism. It will clear your sinuses, banish stress from your life, and even stop seizures.
A variety of said blogs brought up this list of questionable Himalayan salt lamp benefits, some more preposterous than others.
Cures a host of illnesses, mental and physical
Prevents cancer
Cleans and deodorizes the air
Removes toxins from your body
Promotes healthy sleep
Improves concentration
Boosts your energy levels
Provides a calming light source
Lifts your mood
Naturally, the sheer range of lofty promises threw my bullshit detector on high alert. How could a glowing crystal banish my indoor allergies, soothe my anxiety, and draw all of the “toxins” from my body?
Even more puzzling was how anyone could possibly believe these health concerns could be solved just by tossing a light bulb inside of a chunk of mineral.
What Do Salt Lamps Do?
Despite what lifestyle blogs and listicles tell you, Himalayan salt lamps probably won’t cure allergies, anxiety, or autism. They probably won’t prevent cancer, either.
There are a few salt lamp claims that do seem plausible, however. It’s not far-fetched to believe a soft pink glow can help you sleep, relax, or find a happier state of mind.
So, what do salt lamps do? To find the definitive answer, let’s investigate how they supposedly work their magic.
As it turns out, that “magic” involves the positive ions that are floating all around us. According to a number of dubious Pinterest boards, WiFi, electronics, and other necessities of modern life emit positive ions. An excessive amount of wayward ions results in "ionic pollution," which contributes to allergies, anxieties, and other assorted ailments.
Here’s how the Himalayan salt lamp fits in. Apparently, its healing powers come from emitting negative ions to counter those positive ions. The salt crystal works like a filter, attracting water molecules from the air and into the crystal. It effectively traps the dirt, pollen, smoke, and other “toxins” somewhere in the mineral’s confines. As the lamp removes these contaminants, the purified water vapor is sent back into the air, neutralizing the ionic radiation.
Heat from the light bulb keeps the salt crystal from becoming too saturated with moisture and releases the healing negative ions into the air.
Related: A Guide To Herbalism And Medicinal Herbs
There is some evidence that negative ions are beneficial to your health: in one study at Columbia University, negative ions helped treat depressive and neurovegetative disorders by enhancing blood oxygenation levels.
Whether the bulbs burn hot enough or the lamps generate enough ions to have any noticeable effect is questionable. I touched the lamp with my bare hand after leaving it on for five or six continuous hours, and it barely felt warm to the touch.
The pink salt crystals are essentially the same salt you add to your dinner, with a bit of rust thrown in for color and crunch.
Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Work?
Because any experiments need an array of experiences, I asked for the help of my wonderful Green Future colleagues.
I put it on my desk on a Tuesday, and asked them to keep track of whether the negative ions created positive vibes and removed the toxins in their bodies throughout the week.
Personally, I didn’t notice any difference in my mood, energy, or indoor allergies from having a glowing pink salt crystal on my desk. I still found myself relying on Zyrtec to fight the sniffles, and my mood remained consistent throughout the week.
“I sit right next to you and don’t notice any detoxification,” a fellow writer noted. “But I eat a lot of fast food, so it’s possible I’m so toxic that even a salt lamp can’t help me.”
Related: What NASA And LED Grow Lights Have In Common
Nearly everyone else on the team felt the same neutral sentiment, with the exception of our content strategist.
“I BELIEVE IN THE LAMP,” she wrote, before elaborating on its calming qualities. “Looking at it calms me. It’s also my justification for filling my house with them.”
Turns out, her justification is more than an emotional appeal. There is evidence that the warm glow and low light emitted from the lamp can have a calming effect and help you fall asleep.
So, should you rush out to buy a Himalayan salt lamp? Only if you enjoy the design. According to Snopes, the “Himalayan salt lamps cure everything” claim is absolutely false. They won’t cure cancer, but they could boost your mood. At the very least, they are pretty.
My mom said she wouldn’t be offended if I tossed it in the trash after writing this, but I think I’ll keep mine. If nothing else, it’s a great conversation starter.
Update: Thousands of Himalayan salt lamps sold between July and November 2016 have been recalled due to fire hazard. To see if yours is on the list, check the Consumer Product Safety Commission website.
related
Get Fit And Get Motivated! Just Get Outside And Let Nature Do The Rest
Shayla Brooks
Shayla Brooks is a San Diego-based journalist who loves breaking news, social media, and her cat Zelda.
comments
Use a Facebook account to add a comment, subject to Facebook's Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Your Facebook name, photo & other personal information you make public on Facebook will appear with your comment.
"What if the solution were as simple as flipping the switch on a Himalayan salt lamp?"
top stories
Where Have All The Buffalo Roamed? December 30th, 2016
SolarCity vs. SunPower: Which One Is Better? December 5th, 2016
5 Easy Ways To Cut Your Carbon Footprint Throughout Your Day October 25th, 2016
Wind vs. Solar — Which Power Source Is Better? May 5th, 2016
10 Gorgeous Green Homes That Will Make You Want To Go Off The Grid And Live In A Forest March 3rd, 2016
Want To Go Solar? Compare Sunrun Solar vs. SolarCity Here October 26th, 2016
NEWS
Giraffes Listed As “Vulnerable” Species: Here’s How You Can Help May 30th, 2017
The wild giraffe population has dropped by about 40% in just three decades.
The Complete Guide To Geothermal Energy May 22nd, 2017
Iceland uses geothermal power plants to supply 66% of its primary energy use.
Interview: How The NFF Saves The Forest One Tree At A Time May 16th, 2017
These are our forests, and they really need help from all Americans.
6 Surprisingly Easy Ways To Multiply Your Spider Plants May 9th, 2017
Propagating spider plants is not as challenging as what beginner home gardeners may think.
6 Easy Ways To Go Green In Your Office May 8th, 2017
The EPA reports that Americans throw away 1.6 disposable pens every year, which end up in landfills and waterways.
How Seagrass Can Stop Climate Change May 5th, 2017
Seagrass can generate up to 10 litres of oxygen every single day.
5 Panda Facts You Definitely Didn’t Know May 4th, 2017
Pandas have been known to eat up to 12 hours a day, consuming up to 28 pounds of bamboo.
keep up
Sign up for our newsletter to receive a friendly email once a month with the latest articles that will help you live a greener future.
Oops! Please make sure you have entered a valid email. Thanks! You've been successfully added to our newsletter.
TRENDING NOW
An Encyclopedia Of Companion Planting For The Avid Gardener July 20th, 2016
Why Corten Steel Is An Environmental Nightmare April 18th, 2017
Ugliest Animals In The World: So Ugly, They're Kinda Cute December 16th, 2016
Take A Deep Breath And Jump Into The Wonderful World Of Marine Biomes! December 9th, 2016
Do Solar Panels Cause Cancer? March 4th, 2016
16 Clever Ways To Use Diatomaceous Earth Around Your Home December 30th, 2016
Tea Tree Oil Uses: 70 Ways To Benefit From Tea Tree Oil December 8th, 2016
12 Best Environmental Books Every Nature Lover Needs On Their Shelf November 22nd, 2016
TRENDING NOW
Where Have All The Buffalo Roamed? December 30th, 2016
Every time you sang about buffaloes in 'Home on the Range,' you were singing about lies.
SolarCity vs. SunPower: Which One Is Better? December 5th, 2016
In the US, there are currently hundreds of utility-scale solar plants — in 2007, there was not a single one.
5 Easy Ways To Cut Your Carbon Footprint Throughout Your Day October 25th, 2016
A single jar of jam made from exotic fruits can rack up tons of air miles
Climate Hustle: The Face Of Climate Denial Looks Cheap May 4th, 2016
Apparently, those who consider themselves climate skeptics are very eco-friendly with their arguments. They recycle them over and over again, even if they’re garbage.
Hollywood Beekeeping: Four Celebrities Show Us Why Bees Matter October 6th, 2016
We do not realize that they are the foundation, I think, of the growth of the planet, the vegetation.
Green Future
About
Contact
Meet the Team
Sitemap
Privacy Policy
News
Solar Energy
Sustainable Living
Transportation
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Instagram
Google+
Newsletter
Sign up for our newsletter to receive a friendly email once a month with the latest articles that will help you live a greener future.
Oops! Please make sure you have entered a valid email. Thanks! You've been successfully added to our newsletter.
© 2019 Green Future™
All rights reserved. Designed, written, and developed in California. Privacy Policy