Morphine Sulfate Addiction and Abuse | The Recovery Village
Contact Us
Insurance
Admissions
Teen Addiction
Search
352.771.2700 Recovery Is Possible
Drug Addiction
Drug Addiction Overview
Commonly Abused Drugs
Alcohol
Cocaine
Heroin
Marijuana
Meth
Xanax
Stimulants
Adderall
Amphetamines
Bath Salts
Crack
Ecstasy, MDMA
Spice, K2
Opioid/Opiates
Codeine
Fentanyl
OxyContin
Hydrocodone
Dilaudid
Lortab
Kratom
Morphine
Oxycodone
Vicodin
Benzodiazepines
Ativan
Klonopin
Valium
Librium
Prescription Drugs
Percocet
Methadone
Ambien
Tramadol
Suboxone
Subutex
Narcan
Ultram
Fioricet
Trazodone
Drug Index
Ayahuasca
CBD (Cannabidiol)
Kava
Peyote
Dealing With the Issues of a High-Functioning Alcoholic
Can You Become Addicted to Heroin the First Time?
Drug Abuse Hotline
Alcohol Hotline
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Mental Health
Anxiety Disorders
Anxiety
Generalized Anxiety
Panic Disorder
Social Anxiety
Personality Disorders
Antisocial PD
Borderline PD
Dissociative Identity Disorder
Histrionic PD
Schizoid PD
Stress Related Disorders
Adjustment Disorder
PTSD
Eating Disorders
Anorexia
Binge Eating
Bulimia
Restrictive Food Intake
Depression & Mood Disorders
Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Major Depressive Disorder
Postpartum Depression
Obsessive Compulsive Disorders
Body Dysmorphia
Gender Dysphoria
Impulse Control Disorder
OCD
Other Mental Health Issues
ADHD/ADD
Phobias
Psychosis
Schizophrenia
Sleep Disorders
Common Co-Occurring Disorders
Process Addictions
Anxiety and Substance Abuse
Borderline PD and Drug Abuse
Depression and Drug Abuse
Panic Disorder and Drug Abuse
PTSD and Substance Abuse
Schizophrenia and Drug Abuse
Mental Health First Aid
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Addiction Treatment
Drug Addiction Treatment
Alcoholism Treatment
Medical Detox
Medication-Assisted Treatment
Inpatient Rehab
Partial Hospitalization
Intensive Outpatient
Outpatient Rehab
Aftercare
Dual Diagnosis
Understanding Treatment
Our Treatment Philosophy
Drug Rehab
Drug Detox
Intervention
Friends & Family Portal
Treatment Therapies
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
Dialectical Behavioral Therapy
Individual/Group Therapy
Intensive Therapy
Substance Abuse Treatment Centers and Rehab
Substance Abuse Counseling
Mental Health/Dual Diagnosis
Treatments for Anxiety
Bipolar Treatments
Treatments for Schizophrenia
Depression Treatments
PTSD Treatments
10 Tips to Help Family Members of Those Struggling With Addiction Cope
10 Signs You Need To Seek Professional Help
Heroin Hotline
Marijuana Hotline
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Our Rehab Centers
Locations Overview
Nationwide Adult Rehab Centers
The Recovery Village Umatilla (FL)
Orlando Recovery Center (FL)
The Recovery Village at Palmer Lake (CO)
The Recovery Village Columbus (OH)
The Recovery Village Ridgefield (WA)
Specialty Rehab Centers
Next Generation Village (FL)
IAFF Recovery Center (MD)
Aftercare
Next Step Village (FL)
Treatment By State
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Resources
Sobriety Calculator
Friends and Family
Teen Addiction
College Students
LGBTQ+ Addiction
Active Duty Military
Military Veterans
Fitness & Nutrition
Spiritual Resources
Domestic Violence
Lawyers
Caregiver Resources
Cancer Patients
Elderly
Recovery Blog
Inside Addiction
Insurance
Contact Us
Admissions
Search
Don't wait another day. Help is a phone call away. 352.771.2700
close What To Expect
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns.
352.771.2700
Recovery Is Possible
Home Morphine Sulfate Addiction and Abuse
Share
Tweet
+1
Share
Morphine Sulfate Addiction and Abuse
By The Recovery Village
Editor Camille Renzoni
Reviewer Jessica Pyhtila
Updated on02/14/19
Morphine Sulfate Addiction Hotline
24/7, Toll-Free, Confidential
844-207-6576
Table of Contents
1. What is Morphine Sulfate?
2. Morphine Sulfate Abuse
3. Morphine Sulfate Addiction
4. Signs of Morphine Sulfate Addiction
5. Side Effect of Morphine Sulfate
6. Treatment for Morphine Sulfate Addiction
Collapse table of contents
At the beginning of the 21st century, prescription opioid use became one of the biggest drug-related crises in the United States. Millions of Americans need treatment for severe pain that occurs due to old age or injury, but many medications can be addictive. Opioids attach to receptors in the brain, which then block the transmission of pain messages and release feel-good chemicals that produce a euphoric high.
Morphine is one of the most popular and addictive prescription opioids. The medication is a key contributor to the 3.2 million Americans ages 12 and older who reported misuse of prescription pain-relief drugs in 2017, a statistic that was reported in the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration’s 2017 National Survey on Drug Use and Health. Understanding how morphine sulfate can become addictive and why people misuse the medication can prevent you or someone you know from developing a dependence on the drug.
What is Morphine Sulfate?
Morphine is an opioid analgesic, or narcotic, derived from the opium found in opium poppy plants. The drug is used to relieve moderate to severe pain. The Federal Drug Administration approved morphine in 1941 for pain treatment but has since classified morphine sulfate as a Schedule II controlled substance because the drug is highly addictive, extremely potent and frequently misused.
Morphine works by interacting with opioid receptors and blocking pain signals from reaching the nervous system, which alters how the body responds to pain. Morphine does not cure the underlying causes of pain but can temporarily reduce the feelings of pain.
Morphine sulfate is a variation of morphine that is chemically conjugated with sulfuric acid, which helps morphine become water-soluble and easily absorbed for treatment. The medication can be taken orally, in tablet or liquid form, or by injection. Morphine sulfate is prescribed in various brand names, including:
Kadian
MorphaBond ER
Arymo ER
Duramorph
Infumorph
Mitigo
MS Contin
The dosage of morphine sulfate that someone will receive varies based on their type of pain, how severe the pain is and their physical attributes, such as height and weight. In immediate-release tablet form, morphine sulfate is available between 15 and 30 mg. In extended-release tablet form (which is often used to treat chronic pain), there are many other tablet strengths available, all the way up to 200 mg.
Taking the drug consistently can result in a psychological dependence forming, because the person using morphine sulfate mentally associates the drug to a pain-free existence. Physical dependence can develop over time as well, which is what leads to withdrawal symptoms upon attempting to stop using the drug. If you or someone you know uses morphine to treat for pain, take the medication only as prescribed by a doctor.
Morphine Sulfate Abuse
Due to how addictive morphine sulfate can be, the medication is often misused in order to achieve pleasant effects and reduce or eliminate feelings of pain. Exceeding a doctor’s recommendation for dosage and frequency can result in an addiction forming or even an overdose. Symptoms of a morphine sulfate overdose include shallow breathing, a slow heartbeat or coma.
Other side effects of taking morphine sulfate include: mood changes, hallucinations, severe stomach pain, difficulty urinating and a severe loss of appetite. Some people might be allergic to the medication and experience itching, swelling or difficulty breathing. If any of these effects occur, tell your primary physician immediately.
Speak to a Morphine Sulfate Intake Coordinator now.
352.771.2700What to expect when I call?
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7.
Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now.352.771.2700
Morphine Sulfate Addiction
Morphine sulfate addiction usually occurs after someone takes the medication for a consistent length of time. Even if someone uses the drug as prescribed by their doctor, that person can build a dependence on the substance and become addicted.
An addiction to morphine sulfate can occur either from a psychological dependence or a physical one. Morphine sulfate reduces feelings of pain, which can increase a person’s happiness. Taking the drug can cause people to mentally link taking the medication to a pain-free and happy existence, which can create a psychological dependence. Even if that person does not have a physical reliance on the substance yet, they might feel a need to take morphine sulfate to achieve happiness.
Physical dependence can occur if the drug is taken consistently and in a large enough dosage. When a person takes opioids, the drug attaches to receptors in the brain and releases dopamine (feel-good chemicals), some of which reduce the sensation of pain. The release of these chemicals causes the body to become accustomed to the drug’s presence in order to produce enough chemicals to maintain a balance. When someone stops taking morphine sulfate, their body reacts negatively through withdrawal symptoms due to a new chemical imbalance that occurs.
Signs of Morphine Sulfate Addiction
Just as taking morphine sulfate as prescribed by a doctor won’t always protect someone from becoming addicted, not everyone who misuses morphine sulfate will become addicted to the drug. However, misuse of the drug is one of the most common ways in which someone will become addicted to morphine sulfate and one of the most recognizable signs of an addiction.
Other signs of morphine sulfate addiction include changes to a person’s physical appearance. They might have a change in appetite, lose weight and show a lack of hygiene. Personality changes that could indicate a morphine sulfate addiction include increases in irritation, anxiousness, lethargy, and introversion. Some of the physical side effects of morphine sulfate use — such as constipation, nausea or euphoric feelings — can also be signs of addiction.
Side Effects of Morphine Sulfate
Nausea and vomiting are two of the most common signs of morphine sulfate use. Medical experts suggest consuming food when taking the medication to reduce the possibility of nausea. Another potential defense against physical illness is laying down immediately after taking the morphine sulfate dosage.
Other common side effects of morphine sulfate use include:
Constipation
Lightheadedness
Dizziness
Drowsiness
Sweating
Treatment for Morphine Sulfate Addiction
If you or someone you know has shown signs of a morphine sulfate addiction, consider contacting a rehabilitation facility. The Recovery Village has treatment locations in most regions of the United States and can provide medical care and emotional support for anyone who struggles with a drug or alcohol addiction. Call a representative to receive more information regarding drug addiction in general or ask questions related specifically to morphine sulfate.
Sources
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. “Key Substance Use and Mental Health Indicators in the United States: Results from the 2017 National Survey on Drug Use and Health.” Published September 2018. Accessed January 2019.
Morphine Sulfate Addiction
NEXT:Signs, Symptoms & Side Effects
Withdrawal & Detox
Morphine Sulfate Addiction Treatment & Rehab
Have more questions about Morphine Sulfate abuse?
Q.
How Long Does Morphine Sulfate Stay in Your System?
Read the most frequently asked questions
See also
Mixing Morphine Sulfate with Alcohol
Morphine Sulfate Overdose
See more topics
What is National Take Back Day?
April 19, 2019
Search
Speak to a Morphine Sulfate Intake Coordinator now.
352.771.2700What to expect when I call?
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7.
Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now.352.771.2700
Morphine Sulfate Addiction and Abuse
5 (100%) 2 votes
Share
Tweet
+1
Share
Latest Related Posts:
Morphine Sulfate Signs, Symptoms and Side Effects
Morphine Sulfate Withdrawal and Detox
Morphine Sulfate Addiction Treatment and Rehab
How Long Does Morphine Sulfate Stay in Your System?
Mixing Morphine Sulfate with Alcohol
Morphine Sulfate Overdose
Commonly Asked Questions About Morphine Sulfate
Morphine Sulfate Related Topics
Ready to start? We're here for you.
352.771.2700
The Recovery Village
633 Umatilla Blvd. Umatilla, FL 32784
(352) 771-2700
About Us
About
Our Team
Philosophy
Careers
Get Started
Admissions
Insurance
Locations
Contact Us
Legal
Notice Of Privacy Practices
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
© The Recovery Village at Umatilla All Rights Reserved.