Lowering Cholesterol with Exercise | High Cholesterol | Everyday Health
Search
Log in My Profile
Your Profile
Following Topics
Saved Items
Newsletters
Tools
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Settings
Logout
Subscribe Menu
Main Menu
high cholesterol
Guide
Diagnosis
Food & Recipes
Living With
Medications
Nutrition
People
Treatment
View All
Conditions
Atrial Fibrillation
Cold and Flu
Depression
Heart Failure
High Cholesterol
Multiple Sclerosis
Psoriasis
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Ulcerative Colitis
View All
Drugs A-Z
Symptom Checker
Healthy Living
Fitness
Food & Nutrition
Sex & Relationships
Sleep
View All
Health Tools
Calorie Counter
Drugs A-Z
Meal Planner
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Recipes
Symptom Checker
Subscribe to Newsletters
clear
More in High Cholesterol
10 Surprising Facts About Cholesterol
7 Smart Smoothies When You Have High Cholesterol
Know the Cholesterol Level That’s Right for You — And Stick to It
10 Surprising Facts About Statins
Explore Everyday Health
Health A-Z
Drugs
Healthy Living
Food
Error
Please try again later.
Save
top
Everyday Health Heart Health High Cholesterol
How to Cut High Cholesterol and Heart Attack Risk With Exercise
Make movement a part of your cholesterol-lowering plan to prevent heart disease.
By Toni Gerber Hope
Medically Reviewed by Justin Laube, MD
Last Updated: 7/28/2016
Don't Miss This
Supplementing Your Cholesterol- Lowering Plan
9 Simple Ways to Lower Cholesterol
%title
Sign Up for Our Heart Health Newsletter
Thanks for signing up! You might also like these other newsletters:
Sign up for more FREE Everyday Health newsletters.
Oops! Please enter a valid email address
Sign up
Oops! Please enter a valid email address
Oops! Please select a newsletter
We respect your privacy.
Thinkstock
Fast Facts
When you exercise regularly, your cholesterol numbers will improve.
To protect your heart, get an average of 40 minutes of moderate to vigorous aerobic activity three or four times a week.
A combination of aerobic exercise and strength training is the best way to reduce your heart disease risk.
If your cholesterol numbers aren’t where they ought to be, working out should be a key part of your get-healthy strategy. The right kinds of workouts, done regularly, can raise levels of heart-protecting HDL cholesterol and drop dangerous triglyceride levels, says Robert H. Eckel, MD, professor of medicine in the cardiology division at the University of Colorado School of Medicine in Aurora. “By losing fat and building muscle, your numbers can really improve.”
What Kind of Exercise Will Help?
Research points to a combination of aerobic (aka cardio) and resistance training as the best plan for reducing your risk of cardiovascular disease. In one Australian study of overweight and obese participants published in August 2012 in BMC Public Health, researchers found that engaging in both types of exercise conferred greater benefits for weight loss, fat loss, and cardiorespiratory fitness than either cardio or resistance alone.
How Much Exercise Do You Need to Cut Cholesterol?
To improve cholesterol levels, as well as lower your blood pressure and risk for heart attack and stroke, the American Heart Association (AHA) recommends an average of 40 minutes of moderate- to vigorous-intensity aerobic activity three or four times a week. For overall cardiovascular health, the AHA suggests at least 150 minutes of moderate exercise — or 75 minutes of vigorous exercise — per week. You can mix up moderate and vigorous activity if you’d like.
Examples of moderate-intensity exercise include:
Walking briskly (3 miles per hour or faster)
Bicycling (10 miles per hour or slower)
Playing tennis (doubles)
Gardening
Examples of vigorous-intensity exercise include:
Racewalking, jogging, or running
Swimming laps
Playing tennis (singles)
Aerobic dancing
Bicycling (10 miles per hour or faster)
Hiking uphill
The easiest way to determine if you’re working out at a beneficial level is to do the talk test. According to the AHA, for moderate-intensity exercise, you should be able to hold a conversation; during vigorous activities, you’ll need to stop for a breath after a few words.
You can also use a gadget or your fingers to measure your pulse and see if you’re at your target heart rate. To calculate your maximum heart rate, subtract your age from 220. Your target heart rate is 50 to 85 percent of your maximum.
Add Resistance Training for Heart Health
Also known as strength training, resistance training uses machines, free weights, bands, or your own body weight to build muscle. Adding muscle increases your metabolic rate, so you’ll burn more calories even when you’re at rest. The AHA recommends strength training at least twice a week for heart health.
Aim for more reps, not more weight as you get stronger, advises Lee Jordan, an American Council on Exercise (ACE)-certified health coach and behavior change specialist in Jacksonville Beach, Florida, because “that’s been shown to have a greater benefit on lipids [cholesterol levels],” says Jordan.
If you’re not familiar with the moves, take a class or work with a professional trainer first to avoid injury and get the maximum benefit.
Once you’ve worked up to a stable exercise program, you should see improvements in your HDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels in about a month, says Dr. Eckel. But exercise alone won’t significantly drop your LDL cholesterol levels. For that, you also need to alter your diet; in particular, he advises avoiding saturated fat, the kind found in marbled red meat and full-fat dairy products.
Even though reducing your LDL is beneficial, research on whether it has an effect on overall longevity is still inconclusive. For now, eating a balanced, healthy diet that's rich in vegetables, fruits, and whole grains — based on the Harvard Healthy Eating Plate or a Mediterranean diet — is the most reasonable approach.
How to Start an Exercise Habit to Lower Cholesterol
Don’t leap straight from your couch to the running track. “If you’ve been sedentary, particularly if you have risks for heart disease, get your doctor’s okay before you start exercising,” says Eckel, who is also an author of the 2013 AHA/ACC Guideline on Lifestyle Management to Reduce Cardiovascular Risk and the resulting online heart risk tool.
Then, just start. “That may sound ridiculous,” says Jordan, “but people get themselves all tied up waiting for the perfect time to begin an exercise program — ‘when this happens or that happens.’ There’s no perfect time. You just have to start.”
He believes that while the AHA frequency guidelines point to good outcomes for people who are trying to shift their cholesterol numbers, people who are just beginning to work out should aim for even more sessions: five or six days a week. “That’s what it takes to establish a new habit,” says Jordan. “In the beginning, frequency really counts.”
RELATED: 8 Foods to Help Lower Your Cholesterol
How to Keep Exercise Up to Get Cholesterol and Heart Disease Risk Down
Some great ways to stay motivated include:
Keeping your goals realistic. If you expect to lose a lot of weight through exercise, or you reach healthy cholesterol levels quickly, you could be setting yourself up for disappointment — and end up dropping out.
Making exercise social. Having the support of family or a friend helps you keep going. Numerous apps can also link you to other exercisers.
Being flexible. If you can’t make it to the gym or the weather is forcing you to stay in, work out in your living room.
Treatment
The Latest in High Cholesterol
High Cholesterol
All About Treatment for High Cholesterol
Both medication and lifestyle changes can help you improve your cholesterol numbers.
High Cholesterol
What You Need to Know About High Cholesterol
High cholesterol is increasingly common with age and can lead to strokes, heart attacks, and other health problems.
High Cholesterol
Regis Philbin Takes on High Cholesterol
The legendary talk-show host is helping raise awareness about heart health and the importance of staying on drug treatment.
High Cholesterol
Statins Help Healthy People Lower Their 'Bad' Cholesterol
Study found taking them lowered risk of heart disease, death in those with high LDL levels.
High Cholesterol
New Cholesterol Drugs Vastly Overpriced, Study Contends
But drug maker, heart experts question methodology of analysis.
High Cholesterol
New Cholesterol Fighting Meds Target Key Gene
Two trials show promise for non-statin approach to heart health.
High Cholesterol
Many Under 40 May Not Need Regular Cholesterol Checks: Study
But heart experts note that screening sooner can help some patients make lifestyle changes early in the game.
High Cholesterol
Try Dark Meat for Better Heart Health
A nutrient called taurine, found in the dark meat of turkey and chicken, may protect women with high cholesterol against coronary heart disease.
High Cholesterol
Is Your Medication Raising Your Cholesterol?
Taking certain medications may result in some unhealthy side effects. Several drugs, including those for your heart, are thought to actually raise cho...
High Cholesterol
Many Americans Don't Know How to Handle High Cholesterol
Survey found they know it raises heart risks, but are confused, discouraged about how to lower it.
High Cholesterol
New Cholesterol Drugs May Beat Statins, But Price Tag Is High
Repatha, inclisiran lowered cholesterol levels even further, but first costs about $14,000 a year to take.
High Cholesterol
Why I Talked My Husband Out of Taking Statins
High Cholesterol
Study Suggests Newer Cholesterol Drugs Are Safe
Whether taking them results in fewer heart attacks and strokes isn't yet known, researcher says.
High Cholesterol
Many Young Adults With High Cholesterol Not on Statins as Recommended
Guidelines suggest the meds could help ward off heart trouble, but too many people are missing out, study finds.
High Cholesterol
Americans' Cholesterol Levels Keep Falling
Eliminating trans fats from the U.S. diet may be one factor in this healthy trend.
High Cholesterol
High Cholesterol in Children? It's All Too Common
High cholesterol isn't just a health problem for adults: 1 in 5 children and teens has unhealthy cholesterol levels.
High Cholesterol
Hot Peppers May Help Your Heart
Chile peppers like cayenne, jalapeño, and habanero contain capsaicin and could help protect you from heart disease.
High Cholesterol
Can You Overcome Your Genetic Risk of Heart Disease?
High Cholesterol
Statins to Prevent Heart Disease for All?
Expanded guidelines recommend statins for more people ages 40 to 75 who have only one other risk factor for heart attack and stroke.
High Cholesterol
Treating High Cholesterol Is a Family Affair: My Life With FH
One patient with familial hypercholesterolemia took action after too many in her family died of heart attacks in their thirties.
Wellness inspired. Wellness enabled.
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Feedback
Contact Us
Editorial Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Editorial Policy
Feedback
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
Contact Us
More From Ziff Davis: Computer Shopper ExtremeTech Geek AskMen IGN Offers.com Speedtest.net TechBargains Toolbox What to Expect MedPage Today PCMag
© 1996-2019 Ziff Davis, LLC. Everyday Health is among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.