Sit-Ups Are Risky. Try These Core Exercises Instead.
Download our free Chrome extension.
✕
Get smarter each time you open a new tab with the Curiosity Smart Tab Chrome extension.
+ ADD TO CHROME
search
close
search
trending_up Trending
email Subscribe
headset Podcast
menu
Offbeat Adventure
Amazing Places
Mind & Body
Personal Growth
Puzzles & Quizzes
Science & Technology
add More
Sign in
trending_up
email
headset
menu
close
Connect with Facebook
Connect with Google
Connect with Twitter
or continue with email
Register
Login
Forgot Password?
By clicking the "Create New Account" button, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
Sign in close
Offbeat Adventure
Amazing Places
Mind & Body
Personal Growth
Puzzles & Quizzes
Science & Technology
Explore Subjects
close
Download the free app
headset The Curiosity Podcast
mail_outline Newsletter
shopping_cart Shop
chat Bots
laptop_chromebook Smart Tab
About
Contact
Press
Jobs
Team
Blog
Creators
Advertise
Privacy
Terms
Exercise
Sit-Ups Are Risky. Try These Core Exercises Instead.
June 21, 2016
Written by Ashley Hamer
Share
If you want a six-pack, what's the first thing you should do? If you follow the popular wisdom, the answer is sit-ups. But that's not actually what fitness experts recommend. Sit-ups have proven to be a big injury risk—and besides, there are more effective exercises to achieve rock-hard abs (or stronger core muscles, anyway).
Competitors do sit-ups during the Army Physical Fitness Test portion of U.S. Army Europe's 2013 Best Warrior Competition in Grafenwoehr, Germany, Aug. 19.
Drop and Give Me L5
During the Army Physical Fitness Test (APFT), soldiers perform push-ups, sit-ups, and a two-mile run to demonstrate that they're physically qualified for duty. In a 2005 study, researchers found that although only 117 soldiers out of more than 1,500 sustained injuries during the test, a whopping 56 percent of those injuries were caused by sit-ups.
This is no surprise to many: everyone from biomechanics experts to celebrity trainers have stopped recommending sit-ups because of their high potential for injury. According to Dr. Stuart McGill, professor of spine biomechanics at the University of Waterloo, sit-ups and crunches place up to 750 pounds (340 kilograms) of compressive force on the spine, which can lead the discs between the vertebrae to bulge and even herniate, pressing on nerves and causing serious back pain.
You Don't See Sit-Ups in the Wild
What's more, sit-ups aren't even that useful. The core muscles are primarily there to stabilize the torso, not flex the spine, so the strength gained from a flexing exercise like the sit-up has very few uses in the real world. (We don't know about you, but we're much more likely to stand upright holding groceries than we are to sit up in bed a few dozen times in a row). That's why trainers and physicians are recommending stabilizing exercises like planks to help people build stronger cores.
Planks are one of the easiest moves to set up, even though they're deceptively difficult to hold: just get in a push-up position on the floor, but bend your elbows 90 degrees so you're supporting yourself on your forearms. With your muscles engaged and your body in a straight line, hold your position for as long as you can—start with 30 seconds, and try to work your way up to two minutes. According to Men's Fitness, this move goes far beyond ab strength to give you stronger shoulders, arms, and glutes as well.
Better Core Exercises From Dr. Stuart McGill
Magazine: Core Values | The New York Times
– The New York Times
Key Facts In This Video
Sit-ups can lead to herniated discs in the spine and cause back pain. 00:13
Here are several alternate core-strengthening exercises. 00:42
If you did hundreds of sit-ups, your discs would break before your spine had a chance to catch up. 02:38
Written by Ashley Hamer June 21, 2016
Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.
Our Best Articles Daily
Smart choice!
You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.
mail_outline
Read More from Curiosity
Practice Won't Make Perfect, But Deliberate Practice Might
Want to Break a Bad Habit? Focus on the 3 "R's"
Tags
Muscle Weight
Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.
Our Best Articles Daily
Smart choice!
You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.
mail_outline
Curiosity uses cookies to improve site performance, for analytics and for advertising. By continuing to use our site, you accept our use of cookies, our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
✕