Blog - RMM Health
Home
About
Services
Wellness
Blog
Contact
RMM Health
Health Coach in Charleston, South Carolina
in Health and Fitness· Wellness
10 Myths About the Common Cold You Shouldn’t Believe
8/30/2018. Article created by Jon McNamara.
With the average adult catching it two to three times a year and children catching it six to eight times a year, the common cold (which can be caught year round) lives up to its namesake by being the most common type of infectious illness in humans. This viral infection is characterized by many medical symptoms, including upper respiratory tract symptoms, including nasal congestion, excess mucus production, sore throat, fevers, and sneezing, as well as body-wide malaise and fatigue. While most people can recognize the symptoms of the common cold, though, there’s a lot of wrong information about the common cold that you shouldn’t believe.
1) It’s Caused by a Single Virus
A single virus is not responsible for the common cold. Instead, it’s caused by one of more than 200 different viruses which can and often do change each season, the most common of which is the rhinovirus. Doctors are still discovering new strains.
2) It’s Treatable with Antibiotics
People often view antibiotics as the cure-all solution to any infection. Or they think they can pop some type of prescription drug. Since Dr. Alexander Fleming discovered penicillin in 1928, antibiotics have proven instrumental in treating diseases. However, the common cold is a result of a virus, so it’s not treatable with antibiotics. These medicines are only useful for treating bacterial infections, not viral or fungal infections.
3) It’s Always Symptomatic
You won’t always develop symptoms from a cold infection. Statistics show that roughly one-quarter of all colds are asymptomatic, i.e., 1 in 4 people who catch one will show no signs of it. But it still can be spread, leading to health issues for others. The virus is still present inside the nasal passages, but the host’s immune system response is strong enough to prevent symptoms from manifesting.
4) You Can Only Catch It During Winter
Although it’s more common during winter, you can catch a cold infection any time of the year. The reason the common cold is more common during winter is that warmer temperatures promote a stronger immune system response to cold-causing viruses. A study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences found that the immune system produces more cold-fighting proteins, known as interferons, in warm temperatures than cool temperatures. But while cold infections are more common during winter, many people catch them during spring and summer as well.
5) There’s a Vaccine or Prescription Medication for It
There are vaccines available for certain bacterial and viral infections, but there’s no functional vaccine for the common cold. There are a few reasons for this, one of which is the sheer number of viruses that cause colds. Furthermore, those viruses mutate rapidly, so even if someone were to develop a vaccine that currently protects against a cold, it might only work for a few months.
6) Vitamin C Will Prevent It
Vitamin C is essential to cellular growth and repair. In recent years, though, some supplement companies have been marketing vitamin C as a cold preventative. They claim that taking large doses (known as megadosing) boosts the immune system so that it can fight off cold infections. Numerous studies have since debunked this myth, however, revealing that vitamin C of any dosage doesn’t prevent or reduce the risk of colds. However, some evidence suggests that vitamin C may shorten the duration of a cold. So, if you catch a cold, try taking vitamin C, but if you’re looking to prevent one, don’t count on vitamin C or any other supplement.
7) It Can Only Spread Through Direct Contact
Avoiding people who already have a cold will reduce your risk of infection. However, direct contact is only one of many ways that cold viruses can spread; because they reside in mucus and nasal secretions, they can travel through the air or it can be stuck on physical items as well, and spread through touch, etc. Cold viruses can stay alive for up to a week without a host, so if an infected person sneezes on nearby surfaces, such as walls, doorknobs, floors, furniture, and windows, someone else can get infected by touching one of these surfaces.
8) You’re No Longer Contagious After Symptoms Have Subsided
You aren’t out of the woods just because your cold symptoms have subsided. You can remain contagious for up to two weeks after the symptoms are gone, and still both get sick as well as spread the illness. Unfortunately, this creates a false sense of security that exposes millions of people to the virus each year. A person, thinking their cold is gone, may believe it’s safe to visit public areas like grocery stores and parks. By going out, they continue to spread the virus to others and get others sick, thereby putting strains on doctor offices as well as hospitals.
9) There’s No Way to Shorten Its Duration
The good news is that you shorten the duration of a cold infection in several ways. Doctors recommend, among other things, getting plenty of rest and staying hydrated is a commonly prescribed treatment. Sleep promotes a healthy immune system, while fluids help to flush the virus from your body. Vitamin C and zinc supplements may also shorten the length of a cold. Some things can lengthen the duration of a cold, such as sugar, which stimulates the virus and encourages faster reproduction.
10) Drinking Milk Worsens It
There’s an age-old myth that you shouldn’t drink milk when suffering from the common cold or any other upper respiratory tract infection. The belief is that milk and other dairy products cause the body to produce more mucus. And when there’s more mucus in your nasal passages, cold viruses can thrive. The truth is that no dairy product affects mucus production. You can drink milk and eat cheese without worrying about it hindering your body’s ability to fight a cold.
Although it sends millions of Americans to the doctor each year, the common cold isn’t particularly dangerous. But it is one of the nation’s leading health care issues and expenditures. It’s a usually mild infection that resolves on its own. Nonetheless, it’s important to familiarize yourself with the common cold. With a better understanding of this viral infection, you can take the right measures to prevent and treat it.
in Wellness
Alcohol and a healthy diet
Alcohol is a complicated subject as there are so many variables where its use is concerned. For some people, it can be troublesome and wreak havoc on their lives. For others, it is a source of pleasure to be enjoyed for its taste and presentation. This article is only going to discuss how to enjoy alcohol and incorporate it into a healthy lifestyle. There is no judgment here, just thoughts and tips on how you can fully enjoy your life without a sense of deprivation or restriction.
*Enjoy alcohol for the taste, not the effect. Appreciate the art of winemaking, craft beer, the cleanness of vodka or tequila or the creativity put into making a cocktail. Enjoy its complexity and savor every sip! Make it special.
*Drink alcohol on happy days or special occasions. It tastes even better when you are not drinking it every day and saturating your senses with it. Be careful drinking on days you feel stressed, sad or overall not great in your body (illness, fatigue) as it is a depressant and will exacerbate those feelings and sensations.
*Drink water before indulging in alcohol, in between drinks and after. Hydrate, hydrate and hydrate to help your body flush its effects out. It will also make you feel much better the next day.
*Do not drink on an empty stomach! This is a major party foul. It will flood your bloodstream too quickly, cause your blood sugar to rapidly rise, leave you hungry and will put you straight on the path to a hangover from hell.
*Keep it to a one to two drink maximum. Pick your absolute favorites, space them out appropriately and savor them. I also find two is the perfect number if you drink with thought and consideration. One drink is always a treat and if you opt to have another, you will savor it as well. In addition, the following morning, if you paced, hydrated yourself, ate appropriately and slept well, you will feel little to minimal effects of alcohol.
*Know your limits. If you are a lightweight, respect that! If you can handle more than two drinks and stay safe, that’s fine too. Just remember alcohol is typically higher in calories and it does add up especially if you view it per week. If you drink 3-4 drinks, several times a week, this could lead to hundreds, if not thousands of extra calories. Keep in mind too, alcohol lowers your inhibitions, making you grab for food (typically higher in calories) as you are indulging.
*Drink earlier if you can help it. The effects of alcohol will wear off earlier, you can avoid a hangover, hydrate appropriately and it will not disrupt your sleep schedule. Day drinking or early evening cocktails can be quite fun and just as enjoyable.
in Wellness
5 healthy and versatile foods to incorporate into your diet
Eating healthy does not have to be complicated, inaccessible or difficult for anyone. Healthy food not only keeps you running at optimal levels but also boosts your immune system and provides your body with a host of vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients. This in turn helps everything run at full capacity. Here are 5 foods that are versatile and easy to incorporate into your diet.
Greens: Dark, leafy greens are available everywhere. They make a great base for a salad as well as being an easy addition to meals as they complement other foods such as eggs and other vegetables. You want to pick vibrant and richly colored greens for a big boost of antioxidants. In addition to providing antioxidants, greens are high in fiber, folic acid, vitamin C, potassium, magnesium and a host of other phytonutrients. Examples include kale, Swiss Chard, spinach and arugula.
Avocados: These are a hot ticket right night especially when it comes to avocado toast. Aside from being creamy and delicious, avocados are hugely beneficial to your health. They are naturally nutrient dense and contain almost twenty minerals and vitamins! They are also full of fiber, are a source of heart healthy fat and have more potassium than bananas. Monounsaturated fats are good for you, however, as healthy as they are, you do need to portion them out appropriately. In a 3.5 oz serving, avocados contain 160 calories, 2 grams of protein, 15 grams of fat and 7 grams of fiber. Avocados can be added to anything including a main or side dish. You can make desserts with them or eat them on their own for a delicious snack.
Sweet Potatoes: The queens of beta carotene (Vitamin A) as well as being a good source of Vitamin C, manganese, copper and Vitamin B6. They are also an excellent source of potassium and dietary fiber. Sweet potatoes are also complex carbohydrates so they stabilize the blood sugar and keep you satiated much longer than a simple carbohydrate. They can be made sweet or savory, added to baked goods, as a substitute for French fries, can be served hot or cold, can be made into a main dish (add chili on top or bake an egg into them), they can be made ahead of time with minimal prep, are very affordable and they travel well.
Lemons: Super affordable and an excellent source of Vitamin C, lemons boost the immune system, are good for colon health, help balance the pH of the body and make your skin glow. Cut up lemons and squeeze a few slices into your water or onto your salad for a fresh, citrus flavor.
Zucchinis: Zucchinis complement many foods from breads, baked goods, lasagnas, other vegetables or work well on their own. They contain Vitamin A, magnesium, folate, potassium and have Vitamin B1, B6, B2 and calcium which all promote wellness. They are low in calories, high in fiber and help keep the body hydrated. Delicious with a little oil, vinegar and herbs, zucchinis are a simple and healthy vegetable to have as a staple in your kitchen.
Incorporating these five food items into your diet will add an abundance of vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients to support a healthy immune system and bring an overall sense of wellness to your life.
in Wellness
Easy ways to take care of yourself
There are times both personally and in the world when it seems like bad days outweigh good days. It is so important to remember things to be grateful for every day to keep a healthy perspective. It is also essential to engage in self-care every day too. Here are some easy (and free) ways to take good care of yourself:
**Take a shower or bath
One of the most depressing things I can think of is staying in your pajamas all day and not getting dressed. Even if you are just planning to binge watch TV and eat pizza on the couch, take a shower, wash your hair. Rinse off and start fresh. Put on a little makeup, do your hair up right—it makes you feel different—in a good, small way that shifts your energy.
**Take a walk
Walking is simply the best. I know I won’t hurt myself, I won’t be a hot mess after, I will get fresh air, a hit of Vitamin D, I might cross paths with some smiling faces and I get a handle on myself.
**Tidy up your place
I have very little in the way of clutter—I don’t like too many things surrounding me. I also like scrubbing away at something—it takes my mind off of things and I feel a big sense of accomplishment when I am done. When you clear your physical space, it clears your head and ramps up your mental clarity.
**Drink half your bodyweight in water
I am a huge water drinker—I drink it all day, every day. It makes me feel on point with myself. When my skin acts up, I drink tons of water with lemon juice and I swear, it makes my skin clear up and downright glow. Just drink it.
**Deep dive into your creature comforts
If I am having a lousy day, I know that a couple of podcasts, some serious kitchen time and maybe a little dance party with some wine can really help me get out of a funk. I like using my hands and creating a healthy meal that will nourish both my mind and body.
**Take a break
Take a long drive, go sit in a Starbucks and people watch, engage in the energy around you. Get outside of yourself. Go where there is life going on around you whether for distraction or inspiration. Just give yourself a break from your world and get pulled into another.
**Get spiritual
Whether it’s sitting in a church, temple, at a park or on the beach-go somewhere that is infinitely bigger than you. It will remind you there is still solace to be found, beauty to behold and life to be lived. Go where the peace is residing and reside there as well.
**Get sleep
I firmly believe sleep may be the panacea for many health and wellness issues. It is so precious to me that it has become one of my top 5 wellness musts. It allows your body and mind optimal restoration and recovery. It makes things feel better in the morning whether you are emotionally off balanced or physically spent. Sleep is pure magic.
**Pet something
My dog, while extremely anxious (just who she is—I’ve tried!) has a calming effect on me. It makes so much sense why there are service and therapy animals. They are precious gifts to us and allow us to offer care, love and respect in its most basic form back out into the universe.
**Connect
Talk with a cherished friend or family member that makes you feel understood, heard and energized. Then float on those positive vibes for the rest of your day. One quality, soulful conversation can be the balm you need when you have a rough day.
**Engage
Engage in something that makes you forget about everything else. Take the time to indulge in a passion or hobby that makes you focused and tuned in mindfully. It will recharge your batteries and make you feel capable to handle whatever is thrown at you in the future.
in Wellness
Tips for Staying on Track
Let’s get this out of the way first—no one and I mean NO ONE eats or should eat perfectly every day. It is simply not possible and it also leaves exactly zero room for any fun or pleasure. Food is one of the great joys of life and the thought of constantly restricting, depriving, dieting or shaming ourselves about it is exhausting. This also applies to exercise and other wellness activities. Consistency with a good touch of moderation is always the way to go instead of feeling like you are on a perpetual diet. Living well through proper nutrition and exercise is a lifestyle. There is no “off” cycle once you adopt a healthier way to live and ideally, after you reach a certain point, you won’t want to live any other way. From time to time, we all get off track whether it’s from stress, travel, just not feeling it or simply being human. Here are some keys ways to find your balance again:
*Do not punish yourself or speak negatively about it. Acknowledge however you got off track and start anew now—not that murky “one day.” Now-the present time. You were living your life. Maybe you were on vacation and made memories, good ones, hopefully. Or you had to go through some stressful times and that’s how you coped.
*Start moving. You don’t have to exercise like a maniac or punish yourself with hardcore routines. Just start back with 30-45 minutes of movement and as your day goes on, find ways to walk more. Get up from your desk and do a few laps. Take a 10 minute walk after dinner. Park further away when you are shopping. Take stairs. This all adds up.
*Drink plenty of water. Water is a great way to reset your body, providing it with proper hydration, lubricating your joints and helping all your organs work efficiently. Add in some lemon for Vitamin C and aim for half of your bodyweight in ounces per day. Drink more if you are especially active or finished a strenuous workout.
*Make mindful food choices. Pay attention to what you are eating and think about how you want to feel going forward. Instinctively, you would reach for colorful, fresh foods like vegetables and fruits. Eat at home and take the time to meal plan, prep your food and cook in advance so you know exactly what you are going to eat for that week.
*Sleep. Get proper, restorative, deep sleep to help your body recover, to find mental clarity and to just feel good! Sleep is the best medicine for many of the body’s ailments. This is especially true if you have jet lag or haven’t been sleeping well during a stressful week.
*Find gratitude and mindfulness in every day. Remember the good things you have in your life, remember the kind of person you are and be thoughtful with your words and actions to yourself and those around you.
*Keep going. Do not give up on yourself because you got off track. Just keep going. Even if you feel like it is an impossible task, one healthy choice will beget another healthy choice. If you do one healthy thing, it will build your confidence and momentum.
These are easy and simple steps to incorporate into your life to get you back on track. Consistency with your health and mindful choices about nutrition will be the keys to feeling good once again.
in Wellness
Intuitive Eating
Intuitive eating has been popping up in wellness and health blogs recently. It is essentially about being guided by your body’s signals verses thinking with your mind when it comes to eating. It runs deeper (as it often does when it comes to our relationship with food and our bodies). One article summed it up as developing self-trust. “Trusting that you can teach yourself that you can eat what you want, when you want and not gain a million pounds.” It allows “your body to naturally find its healthy and happy weight (which may be higher or lower than you are right now).” This self-trust ends up leading to food freedom.
I mostly agree with this principle and I do believe it can help with disordered thinking, body shame, guilt and a host of other emotional issues that come along with food. However, I do think it’s important to also understand the value of discipline, portion control, recognizing emotional eating triggers and mindfulness too. Many of these things intermix with intuitive eating. For most people on the health and wellness path, staying lean and physically fit is extremely rewarding and very much worth it in terms of all the positive effects it has for our health. However, it’s important to know that it also takes hard work, consistency, discipline, balance and moderation. While I have never been on a true diet or severely restricted myself, I also have over the last 20 years become very mindful and dedicated to honoring my body. Many times this includes NOT indulging in dessert, wine, fried food or anything overly processed. Do I eat those things on occasion? Absolutely. However, they are not a part of my daily life and I never feel sad or deprived. In fact, I feel MORE self-trusting when I say no to cake or a second glass of wine. I know what’s good for me and I know how I want to feel. Indulging in certain foods like that too frequently will not help my body feel its best. By exercising some critical thinking and eating whole, real, fresh food daily, I don’t crave unhealthy things. Do I make dessert at home a lot? Yes (look at my Instagram @rachelmcnamara8053). Do I love a glass or two of red wine? Hell yes. However, by not eating or drinking these things all the time, when I do have them, they taste even better.
Everyone is going to have a different journey with their relationship to food. If intuitive eating works for you—wonderful. I think it’s a form of freedom. For me, it’s a little more gray—I do practice some intuitive eating, I absolutely trust myself AND I do need to exercise some discipline and willpower on any given to day to ensure I am treating my body with the love and respect it deserves.
1
2
3
…
54
Next Page »
hi, I’m Rachel!
In addition to health and fitness, I also enjoy writing beauty product reviews, posting recipes, writing about life, things that inspire me and other random musings that pop in my head!
Thanks so much for stopping by and please subscribe to receive my email updates!
Instagram
Pinterest
explore
explore Select Category Beauty Product Review Food and Drink Health and Fitness Wellness
Copyright © 2019