Kaarasaaram: Veggie/Fruit of the Month : Carrots
Kaarasaaram
Simply home-made and truly delicious ...
Pages
Home
Journey of the Biryani
Cuisine of Kongunadu
Vataara Samaiyal
Klick Moments
Healing Greens and Herbal Recipes
Recipes Published
Flavours from around the Globe
Miracle Grains / Siru Thaaniyangal
Rice and its varieties
1 Jul 2011
Veggie/Fruit of the Month : Carrots
Hello friends,
Finally "Veggie/Fruit of the Month" has come to Kaarasaaram. I am sure most of you are very familiar with this event which is the brain child of Priya of Mharo Rajasthan Recipes . Hats off to Priya for coming up with such a simple yet wonderful idea for an event. Thank you Priya, for letting me host your event as it gives me great pleasure and of course it is a very good learning experience for me to know new innovative recipes from fellow bloggers.
Coming to think of it, the UK health system recommends 5 servings of fruits and vegetables everyday to have a fit and healthy body and mind.
There is no need for any extensive studies or research to tell us how these natural nutrient power stations are good for us. For the very fact that it comes from nature and most of the veggie/fruits can be eaten raw are evidence enough to prove their goodness.
The theme for this month is "CARROTS" . No introduction is needed for this wonder veggie. It is one of the most versatile of veggies around - you can bake a cake /muffins or make a rice variety or make a delicious halwa or whip up a creamy kheer or even better juice it to reap the full benefits of this wonder veggie.
Just a few words about carrots:
*The name is Indo European/Latin/Grrek origin because of its horn shape. It is a root vegetable , usually orange in colour but purple/yellow/red/white varieties also exists. The edible part is the root, seeds and leaves.
*The wild ancestors of carrots originated in Iran/Afganistan and then spread to all parts of the world. Carrot varieties are broadly divided into "Western and Eastern Carrots". The western carrots emerged from Netherlands in the 17th century. The City of Holtville, California promotes itself as "Carrot Capital of the World".
*Chantenay/Danvers/ Imperator/Nantes are few of the varieties of carrots depending on the shape and size.
Info and pic Courtesy: Wiki
Nutritional Value: 100 gms of carrots = 48 calories
1.Carrots are bright orange in colour indicating that it is a rich source of "beta-carotene" which gets converted to Vit A in the body.
2.Vitamin K/C/E/B.
3.Rich in minerals like Iron, Zinc, Copper, Potassium, Calcium, Sodium, Fluride and Manganese.
4. Good source of protein, dietary fiber and carbohydrate but low in saturated fats.
Medicinal uses:
*Very beneficial for the eyes - treatment for night blindness.
*Cleanses the intestines and purifies the blood.
*Acts as diuretic, anti diaorrheal and anti anaemic.
*Acts as antiseptic and also provides relief from stress and fatigue if ingested on a regular basis.
*Carminative [relieves flatulence] and relieves constipation. Believed to improve impotence.
*Improves memory power
*Raw grated carrots is used to sooth burn wounds.
*Promotes breast milk secretion in lactating mothers.
*Regular consumption of raw and cooked carrots results in bright sparkly eyes and glowing skin.
For more info please go here , here , here
Now coming to the rules for the events:
1.The dish can be anything - cakes/ breakfast bars/ muffins/ halwa / kheer / rice dish / stir fry / deep fry / chutneys / dips / kurma or just fresh juice with carrot as the main ingredient.
2.The dish can be any course of the meal - appetizer, main course, side dish, dessert, breakfast, lunch, dinner , snack or beverage.
3.The recipe has to strict vegetarian [eggs are allowed in baking].
4.The recipes have to be new and no archive entries are allowed.
5.Post the recipe in your blog from 1st July to 31 July 2011. Multiple entries are welcome
6.Link the recipe post to this announcement page and Priya's announcement page .
7.Please kindly include the logo as it is manadatory and it helps spread the word
Please send in your entries to kaarasaaram@yahoo.co.uk with "Veggie/Fruit of the Month - Carrot" in the subject line with the following details:
Name:
Blog name:
Recipe name and Url:
Picture of the dish : 300pixel
Non bloggers, feel free to send in your recipe details along with the picture to the above email and I will post your recipe in your blog.
Friends, do send in your entries and make this event a grand success.
Enjoy...
Scribbled by Reva
Posted by Unknown at 06:23
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Events
13 comments:
Sayantani said...
i am known as a bunny in my house for my love of carrots. am definitely in.
1 July 2011 at 06:34
kaveri said...
A very informative post Reva...Never new that yellow, purple and white varieties existed....Will definitely send my entries..happy hosting
1 July 2011 at 07:10
Vatsala. said...
For sure I'll send my entries
Show and Tell
1 July 2011 at 07:29
Vardhini said...
Happy hosting Reva ..
Vardhini
Event: Fast food not Fat food
1 July 2011 at 14:07
SravsCulinaryConcepts said...
wonderful event !! love to send my entries !!
Ongoing Event - CC-Roti Pachadi/Chutney
1 July 2011 at 14:56
Krithi's Kitchen said...
Wow.. two events at Kaarasaaram this month... Happy hosting... I can never live without carrots in my fridge, next to onions and tomatoes.. would definitely send something.. :)
http://krithiskitchen.blogspot.com
Event: Serve It - Grilled/Barbequed/Tandoored
1 July 2011 at 15:36
Priya (Yallapantula) Mitharwal said...
Thank you so much Reva for hosting. Good luck and happy hosting :)
1 July 2011 at 17:57
Anonymous said...
wow carrots one of my fav
hav few recipes in my draft just for the event,
happy hosting
event: herbs n flowers banana blossom
1 July 2011 at 18:28
Ambreen said...
Wonderful theme, happy hosting dear!
2 July 2011 at 07:07
Plateful said...
Mmm... looks like someone busy hosting wonderful events! :) Carrot is one of my favorite veggie. Will see if I have something to participate. Thanks!
3 July 2011 at 04:58
Sara's Corner said...
HAppy Hosting will send in my entries soon.
Have updated my events page dear.
5 July 2011 at 10:36
SinFoodie said...
Haapy Hosting Dear!!
Incidentally I made edible chocolate cups with carrot fillings few days back. Will send it to the event :))
6 July 2011 at 07:44
ANU said...
nice event dear...will send a recipe asap....
15 July 2011 at 20:08
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Instagram
About the blog..
Welcome to my blog ... a space specially designed to showcase visual treats matched with simple recipes. Dishes range from authentic Tamil Nadu food to fusion to recipes from around the world....
Feel free to look around...there is something for everyone to relish..:))
Contact me : kaarasaaram@yahoo.co.uk
Rose Ilaneer Delight
Simply delicious
Apple Berry Cooler
Delightful drink..
Green Gold
Refreshing ..
Ragi Koozh
Truly traditional
Indianised Virgin Mary
Truly Indian flavours
Nellikaai Rasam
Tasty thirst quencher
Miracle Grains/Siru Thaaniyangal
for a healthy life..
Home Baker's Challenge
A tasty challenge...
In Your Language
Feast 4 Eyes
Roy Tanck's Flickr Widget requires Flash Player 9 or better.
Get this widget at roytanck.com
Subscribe To
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
My Lovely Friends
Labels
Appetisers n Starters (7)
Awards (2)
Basics of Cooking (4)
Biryani (2)
Bread (1)
Breakfast (6)
BWW (2)
Cakes n Bakes (17)
Chicken (2)
Chocolate (13)
Chutney and Podi (6)
Cookies (8)
Desserts (20)
Diwali (1)
Dosai n Adai (2)
Edible gifts (9)
Egg (3)
Evening 4 'O' clock (11)
Events (26)
Festivals (9)
Friendship Chain (1)
Fruits (16)
Healthy Recipes (13)
ICC (2)
Icecreams (4)
Juices n Smoothies (10)
Kaaram (3)
Klick Moments (4)
Malligai poo Idlis (6)
Miracle Grains (3)
Muffins (2)
Mutton (2)
Nibbles (10)
Pongal (5)
Rasam (3)
Rice 4 Lunch box (8)
Sandwiches (2)
Sauces (4)
Seafood (1)
Soups n Salads (13)
Sugar n Ghee (19)
Thokku n Thuvaiyal (2)
Traditional Drinks (3)
Vegetarian Curries (5)
Wholegrains (8)
Recipe featured in Times of India
Something for the summer..
Recipe featured here....
Apple Kesari with Nutmeg and Almonds
I am here
Tweet Tweet...
Powered By Vistaprint
Winner of Quick and Easy Recipe Mela
Thanks to Arthi, Nithu and Sriya of Spicy Tasty team for this award
All time favourites
Vallarai Keerai Soup
Rose Ilaneer Delight ...To raise a toast for Super Star
ABC... Perfect for the Summer..
Green Gold ... Perfect Summer Cooler
Ragi Koozh
CWF-Sesame Seeds: Roundup....
Ilaneer idli - Tender Coconut Idli
Kootanchoru .... A Rice Lentil Greens Vegetable Medley
Pazham Pori - Ethakka Appam
Kambhu Koozh - Pearl Millet Porridge
Search This Blog
Recipes to your inbox
Visual Portfolio
Visitors
Be Connected..
Protected by
Warning- Please do not copy
Networked Blogs
Follow this blog
I am here..
Part of
Part of
part of
PetitChef
Chicken biryani
The Foodie Blogroll
Part of
Part of
Featured Author
Reva
view my recipes
Part of
Part of
FoodBlogs
I am here
Picture Window theme. Theme images by Jason Morrow. Powered by Blogger.