Pink Himalayan salt lamps: Alleged benefits and evidence
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Do pink Himalayan salt lamps provide any health benefits?
Last reviewed	 Tue 30 October 2018	 Last reviewed	Tue 30 Oct 2018
By Shannon Johnson
Reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Table of contents
What are pink Himalayan salt lamps?
How do they work?
Supposed health benefits and evidence
Uses
Safety
Summary
Due to their alleged health benefits, products containing pink Himalayan salt have become very popular in recent years. They also appeal to those wanting to take a more natural approach to their lifestyle. However, there is little to no evidence to support these health claims.
This article will focus on pink Himalayan salt lamps and whether or not there is any truth to the health claims surrounding them.
What are pink Himalayan salt lamps?
Pink Himalayan salt lamps have no proven health benefits.
These lamps are made of chunks of pink Himalayan salt. The salt has a carved-out center in which to place a light bulb or heat source.
Pink Himalayan salt is a salt rock crystal that comes from the Himalaya Mountains in Asia. True Himalayan salt mostly comes from the Khewra Salt Mine in Pakistan.
The pink color of Himalayan salt is reportedly due to a high concentration of minerals.
Himalayan salt lamps have gained popularity over recent years and often appear in spas and home décor magazines. They are widely available to purchase for use in the home.
How do they work?
One way that pink Himalayan salt lamps supposedly work is by releasing negative ions into the air in a process called air ionization.
The disturbance of water molecules naturally produces negative ions. Waterfalls, rain showers, and crashing waves all generate negative ions. Commercial air ionizers can also produce negative ions.
Some studies suggest that air ionization has some benefits, such as improved cognitive performance.
However, there is no definitive evidence that pink Himalayan salt lamps can produce a measurable number of negative ions, if at all.
Other studies claim that water vapor in the air carrying pollutants and toxins is attracted to the surface of the rock. The toxins fall on the rock, and clean water vapor remains in the air. However, this claim also has little evidence to support it.
Does pink Himalayan salt have any health benefits?
Pink Himalayan salt has many claimed health benefits, but how many of them are backed up by strong evidence? We look at the research here.
Read now
What are the supposed health benefits and does any evidence support them?
Here are the most common health claims associated with pink Himalayan salt lamps and the evidence behind them:
Air purification
Some people use pink Himalayan salt lamps as air purifiers, though no research supports this use.
Many people claim that salt lamps purify the air of a person's home or office. This is specifically useful to those with allergies to dust, insect droppings, animal dander, or other environmental allergies.
Salt lamps may also benefit people with respiratory problems, such as asthma.
However, there is little evidence to suggest that salt lamps remove allergens or germs from the air. Additionally, there is no concrete proof that salt lamps improve air quality.
Ease respiratory symptoms
Another major claim from salt lamp makers is that these products help reduce respiratory symptoms in those with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). This is due in part to the salt lamp's ability to remove irritants.
Not only can a person use a salt lamp, but they can also purchase a Himalayan salt inhaler online or at a drug store.
The notion of inhaling Himalayan salt comes from the ancient practice of halotherapy, in which people with asthma would spend time in salt caves. Apparently, breathing in tiny salt particles can help clear the airways and break down mucus.
There are some studies that look at the effectiveness of salt therapy for asthma and COPD, but they are not high-quality. More research is needed to say whether or not halotherapy is effective, but the practice does not seem to be harmful.
Improved mood and sleep
There are also many claims that salt lamps can improve a person's mood or help them sleep better.
The results of one 2010 study claim that, in animals, exposure to a salt lamp for 14 weeks improved tryptophan and serotonin metabolism, leading to an antidepressant effect. The chemicals tryptophan and serotonin help regulate mood in the body.
However, an analysis of studies in humans found that there was no consistent relationship between negative or positive ionization and mood or sleep.
There is not much research into the relationship between salt lamps and sleep that have to do with air ionization or air purification.
The more likely reasons that salt lamps might improve sleep is that they give off a dim, mood-enhancing light, which might promote relaxation.
Reasons why someone might want to use one
Pink Himalayan salt lamps are popular as ambient décor.
Salt lamps are unlikely to make a significant positive impact on a person's health, but there are other reasons why a person might want to use one.
Benefits can include:
Decorating the home. These lamps have a unique look and may complement the décor of one's home.
Boosting mood. The dim, pinkish light can help create a soothing atmosphere that promotes relaxation.
Using as a nightlight. This dim lighting can help replace brighter lights at home in the evening, making it easier to fall asleep.
All of these benefits can reduce stress by helping a person spend a few relaxing moments gazing at the soft light of the salt lamp.
Are they safe?
There does not seem to be any research into the safety of salt lamps. They appear to be safe to use overall.
However, it is a good idea to keep salt lamps out of reach of children and pets.
Summary
While pink Himalayan salt lamps are nice to look at, they probably do not offer any substantial health benefits beyond helping people relax.
There is little to no evidence to back up claims of air purification, respiratory health, or mood and sleep benefits from salt lamps. Therefore, these claims need further research.
Regardless, a pink Himalayan salt lamp can provide a nice ambiance to a person's home or office.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
Does a foot detox work? What the research says Some people believe that a foot detox can remove toxins from the body and leave people feeling refreshed. While foot detox machines are available, people can also make their own footbaths at home. These footbaths can help remove dirt and dead skin, as well as aiding relaxation. Learn more about foot detoxes here. Read now
8 herbs and supplements for depression Treatment for depression focuses on antidepressant medications, but some herbs and supplements may also help. These include St. John's wort, lavender, and chamomile. Some herbal products may not be safe, so it is important to check with a doctor first to ensure your chosen herb is safe to use. Read now
How can I get to sleep easily? Many people struggle with falling asleep. The time it takes to fall asleep varies from person-to-person, but there are several things that people can try to make themselves fall asleep faster. Tips to fall asleep naturally include exercise and avoiding caffeine around bedtime. Learn more about ways to fall asleep here. Read now
12 natural muscle relaxers Having muscle tightness and pain is a common but bothersome problem for people who exercise or those with underlying conditions. Learn about a variety of natural muscle relaxers in this article. Read now
Ten home remedies for wheezing Wheezing can be caused by respiratory problems, such as asthma, allergies, and colds. A person can stop or manage wheezing at home without an inhaler by using different natural remedies and medications. In this article, learn more about the causes of wheezing in adults and babies, and home treatments for wheezing. Read now
email email
print
share share
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Tue 30 October 2018.
Visit our Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
AAFA explains: Is salt therapy safe and effective for asthma? (2016, March 10). Retrieved from https://community.aafa.org/blog/aafa-explains-is-therapy-safe-and-effective-for-asthma
Naz, H., & Haleem, D. J. (2010, April 27). Exposure to illuminated salt lamp increases 5-HT metabolism: A serotonergic perspective to its beneficial effects. Pakistan Journal of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, 43(2), 105–108. Retrieved from http://www.pjbmb.org.pk/images/PJBMBArchive/2010/PJBMB_43_2_Jun_2010/13.pdf
Perez, V., Alexander, D. D., & Bailey, W. H. (2013, January 15). Air ions and mood outcomes: A review and meta-analysis. BMC Psychiatry, 13(1), 29. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3598548/
Wallner, P., Kundi, M., Panny, M., Tappler, P., & Hutter, H.-P. (2015, November 10). Exposure to air ions in indoor environments: Experimental study with healthy adults. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health,12(11), 14301–14311. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4661648/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Johnson, Shannon. "Do pink Himalayan salt lamps provide any health benefits?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 30 Oct. 2018. Web.
18 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323527.php>
APA
Johnson, S. (2018, October 30). "Do pink Himalayan salt lamps provide any health benefits?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323527.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Could this brain stimulation technique reverse memory decline?
New research examines the effect of a noninvasive brain stimulation technique called transcranial magnetic stimulation on age-related memory decline.
Seaweed extract may help design new drugs
Drug resistance is a large and growing problem. On the hunt for fresh sources of drugs, scientists have turned to the seaweed in underwater forests.
Some brain functions may be restored after death, pig study suggests
Scientists have restored some brain function in a pig's brain 4 hours after the mammal has died. The findings open new avenues for researching the brain.
Stimulating brain with ultrasound can influence decisions
A study in macaques reveals that targeting a brain region with noninvasive, low-intensity ultrasound can alter a specific decision-making process.
Popular in: Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Benefits of black seed oil
How to relieve itching
How marijuana affects the body
Hemp oil benefits list
How do you boost testosterone naturally?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323527.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);