sunglasses Archives - All About Eyes
Follow Us!
All About Eyes
Our Staff
Dr. Dave
Dr. Cheryl
Products
Eye Glasses
Sunglasses
Sport Glasses
Contact Lenses
Vitamins for Eye Health
Insurance
New Patient Forms
Why Choose AAEYES
Contact Us
Health Blog
Eye Care Videos
Directions
FAQ
sunglasses
Home / Health Blog / sunglasses
New Year, New Glasses!
December 31, 2018 Sarah Quinn Articles, Products Comments Off eyeglasses, sunglasses
The annual flipping of the calendar to the new year inevitably leads people to think about fresh starts, overhauling their old ways for better ways … out with the old, in with the new! So what better time than now to revisit the frame style for your eyeglasses and sunglasses? It’s a great way to spruce up your style and give your appearance a boost. New Year, new glasses!
To see how different frames can really change a look, check out Gentlemen’s Quarterly (GQ) article this past summer on the many frame types worn by actor Jeff Goldblum over the course of his 40+ years in the limelight. The photographs show his hits and misses and more importantly, why they work … or don’t.
The biggest consideration when choosing a new style is shape — both for the glasses themselves and for your face. Esquire’s online magazine has a great blog post using video snippets that show the various face shapes and types of frames that look good with them. The face shapes include oblong, triangle, diamond, square, round, heart, and oval. Esquire overlays those shapes onto actual people to demonstrate what a square-shaped face, for example, looks like in real life. As for the frame types, those terms include cat eye, round, oval, rectangle, and square. Familiarizing yourself with these terms can be useful for when talking with your optician.
So if you’re ready for a new you, come to All About Eyes to see for yourself which frames flatter your face. We have a variety of styles to choose from and experts on hand to help you pick the best ones for you. Here’s a sample of what we have on offer:
Happy New Year from all of us at All About Eyes!
National Sunglasses Day is Here!
June 27, 2018 Sarah Quinn Eye Health Comments Off NationalSunglassesDay, sunglasses
Get Your Sunnies On! National Sunglasses Day
June 15, 2018 Sarah Quinn Articles, Eye Health, Products Comments Off NationalSunglassesDay, sunglasses
National Sunglasses Day will be on Wednesday, June 27, and it is a perfect day to celebrate protecting your vision with your sunglasses!
Why Sunglasses?
Sunglasses — not just any sunglasses but specifically those with Ultra Violet (UV) protection — can help to protect your eyes against sunburn (yes, your eyes can get sunburnt), pterygium (abnormal growths on your eyes), potential cataracts, age-related macular degeneration, and squamous cell carcinoma (cancer).
What Are Symptoms of Sun Damage?
If you have been outside without sunglasses for a prolonged period of time or around highly reflective surfaces like lakes, the ocean, sand, or snow, you may find that your eyes are affected. The cornea, the outer layer of the eyeball, is like the top layer of skin on your body and can get sunburnt just as easily.
How do you know if your eyes are sunburnt? If you find they are red, swollen, and/or you have blurry vision and light sensitivity, your cornea may have been sunburnt. This is called photokeratitis. Your eyes may water and you may feel like you’ve got sand or grit in them. See your eye-care practitioner for eye drops and stay in a darkened room for at least a day to allow your eyes time to heal. The cornea will usually heal quickly.
How to Protect Your Eyes
It’s easy to protect your eyes, and stylish, too! All About Eyes has a variety of sunglasses to choose from and they are all UV protected.
And it’s okay to go all “Hollywood” and wear your sunglasses on cloudy days, as the sun’s UV rays are present then, too.
Join the fun, share your #SunglassesSelfie on #NationalSunglassesDay and wear your sunnies!
New Sunglasses for National Sunglasses Day!
June 21, 2017 Sarah Quinn Eye Safety, Products Comments Off sunglasses
It’s that time of year again: time to break out your sunnies and celebrate National Sunglasses Day on Tuesday, June 27. Don’t have any sunglasses? Not to worry! All About Eyes has you covered. We are running a special two-week promotion on sunglasses starting on Thursday, June 22, and running through to Saturday, July 8!
All About Eyes is happy to work with the sponsors of National Sunglasses Day, the Vision Council, in raising awareness about the importance of wearing sunglasses to protect eyes from the sun’s ultraviolet (UV) rays. UV radiation is well-known to cause sunburns and skin cancer, but according to the Vision Council, “Most people don’t realize the damaging impact the wavelengths inflict on their vision.”
Temporary issues from unprotected UV exposure can cause swollen, red eyes and hypersensitivity to light. Years of unprotected exposure, however, can cause cancer to the eye and eyelid, and accelerate conditions like cataracts and age-related macular degeneration.
So be smart and protect your eyes! Wear your sunnies — not just for National Sunglasses Day but every day — and drop by All About Eyes to pick up the latest fashions!
National Sunglasses Day – Cool Eye Safety Essentials
June 24, 2016 Sarah Quinn Eye Health, Eye Safety, Lenses Comments Off cataracts, corneal sunburn, macular degeneration, sunglasses, UV light
June 27th is National Sunglasses Day and a good day to remember that sunglasses are more than a cool fashion accessory, they are instrumental in protecting your eyes from ultraviolet rays. Sunglasses can help block out 99-100 percent of these harmful UV-A and UV-B rays. And fortunately for those living in the United States, most sunglasses sold here — regardless of cost — meet that standard.
So what’s the big deal about National Sunglasses Day? Is it just another marketing day to sell products? Unlike say, National Donut Day, where we celebrate the deliciousness of donuts (and perhaps regret it later), National Sunglasses Day really is about promoting healthy vision. Trust us, you won’t regret it later …
According to the National Vision Council, “Prolonged exposure to UV light can cause serious long-term damage to the human eye. The negative effects can take years or even decades to show and can have a big impact on vision health later in life.” That’s why it’s important to start wearing sunglasses as a child on through to old age.
Sunglasses can help to prevent serious damage such as eyelid cancers (basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and melanoma) which, according to the Skin Cancer Foundation, account for five to ten percent of all skin cancers. And note that it isn’t the upper eyelid that is usually affected, it’s primarily the lower lid. In addition to skin cancers, UV rays can cause cataracts, macular degeneration, and corneal sunburn. Yes, your eyeball can get sunburned, too!
So why not stop by All About Eyes and check out our wide array of sunglasses to protect your eyes?
#NationalSunglassesDay
Cataracts – Causes and Detection
May 23, 2016 Sarah Quinn Eye Health, Procedures Comments Off cataracts, comprehensive eye exam, exams, eye health, prevention, sunglasses
Cataracts cause a clouding effect in your vision but fortunately, they can often be corrected with surgery (click here for expanded information on what cataracts are, available treatments, and prevention tips). So, what actually causes cataracts and how can you detect them?
First, the bad news. Cataracts are mostly caused by age and there really isn’t anything any of us can do about that. Time marches on, proteins develop in the eye’s lens, and the cloudiness develops. According to the National Institutes of Health, by age 80, more than half of all Americans will either have a cataract or will have had surgery to remove them.
Sometimes, cataracts are caused by things that aren’t necessarily within our control, like a traumatic eye injury, diseases like diabetes and glaucoma, or in rare cases, you’re born with them or they develop in childhood because they’re congenital. However, cataracts can also be caused by things within our control such as smoking, alcohol consumption, steroid use, and prolonged exposure to sunlight without wearing sunglasses.
Dilated Eye
So the good news is, by living a healthy lifestyle, eating plenty of fruits and vegetables, and taking good care of ourselves, we can extend the health of our eyes. Part of taking good care of ourselves is making sure to get yearly eye exams, specifically a comprehensive eye exam, which may include dilation and/or Optomap retinal imaging. This type of exam allows the eye care professional to look deep into the inside of your eye. In a dilated exam, drops are placed in each eye which dilates the pupil (the black dot in the center of the eye), making it larger to allow more light in. A large magnifying lens is then used to see into the back of the eye. Optomap retinal imaging takes a 200-degree image of the back of the eye and often does not require dilation. Both of these tests are important, as they can detect early stages of disease, often before any other warning signs appear.
If you suspect you have cataracts in one or both eyes, make an appointment at All About Eyes. Dr. Dave or Dr. Cheryl will conduct a comprehensive eye exam and discuss cataracts with you in more detail. Give us a call at 609-653-9933 to set up an appointment today.
5 Reasons You Should Wear Sunglasses in the Summer
July 30, 2014 AllAboutEyes Eye Safety Comments Off sunglasses, sunspecs, VSP
This month’s post about the importance of wearing sunglasses is written by a guest blogger from the vision insurance professionals at VSP and approved by Dr. Dave and Dr. Cheryl.
Beyond being one of summer’s most trendy accessories, sunglasses are easily the most practical. You may be under the impression that sunglasses are just a fashionable way to keep the sun out of your eyes but they are actually doing much more than just keeping you from squinting or improving your fashion sense.
The following are characteristics of your summer eye wear that you may have never considered your sunglasses capable of.
Prevent eyelid cancer
According to the Skin Cancer Foundation, eyelid cancer accounts for about 5% to 10% of all kinds of skin cancer. The two most common forms of eyelid cancer, basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, are found predominantly in people who have had extensive exposure to the sun throughout their lives.
When not diagnosed and treated right away, eyelid cancer can spread rapidly and damage vision as well as disfigure the face. Another form of cancer that can affect the eyelids, melanoma, can be deadly if it’s allowed to spread.
Frequent sunburns and sun exposure has been linked to skin cancer. Since the eyelids and skin surrounding the eyes are so thin and sensitive, they are much more susceptible to damage from the sun.
Wearing sunglasses with adequate UV protection is an effective way to limit your eye’s exposure to the harmful rays of the sun, especially on bright days or around water and snow, which reflect sunlight making it more intense.
Protect the retina
The retina, where images are formed and sent to the brain, can deteriorate over time, causing macular degeneration, which leads to vision loss. Macular degeneration (the macula is the area of the retina with the sharpest focus) is common in the U.S. among people 60 and older, and some studies have pointed to UV exposure as a possible link.
More research is needed, but in the meantime, we do know that sunglasses can help protect your retina. This means sunglasses are at least one way of prevention against macular degeneration.
Stop cataracts from forming
UV rays are a contributor to the forming of cataracts, which is clouding on the crystalline lens. Cataracts often lead to blindness, since the crystalline lens is responsible for focusing your eyes. However, cataracts can be treated with surgery (over one million procedures are performed in the U.S. every year to remove cataracts).
Protect the cornea from sunburn
Another area of the eye susceptible to damage from UV rays is the cornea, which is the clear, refracting membrane outside the retina. The cornea can literally be burned by UV light, leading to corneal sunburn, or keratitis.
A good pair of sunglasses with UV protection helps prevent corneal sunburn, and it’s especially important to wear eye protection when using a tanning machine or while skiing.
Protect the whites of your eyes
The conjunctiva is the thin membrane that covers the white area of your eyes, and excessive exposure to the sun can cause it to become inflamed and irritated. As it gets more inflamed, the conjunctiva can swell over your cornea, partially blocking your vision (a condition referred to as pterygium or “surfer’s eye”). In extreme cases, surgery is required to remove pterygium.
Not all sunglasses are created equal
Since virtually all areas of the eye can be damaged by overexposure to sunlight, sunglasses can go a long way to ensure long-lasting eye health. Choosing the right kind of sunglasses is important, and some brands may offer little or no protection.
When shopping for a pair of sunglasses, look for a pair with a label that clearly states that they offer at least 99-100% UV protection. Wider lenses and wrap-around styles will also provide more protection, simply because they cover your eyes from more angles.
Early detection
While prevention is critical, all of the eye conditions described above can be detected during a routine eye exam. Getting your eyes checked regularly is crucial to maintaining normal eye health.
So while it’s important to shield your eyes from the potentially damaging effects of the sun, there’s no reason you can’t do it in style with your favorite pair of sunglasses.
Post Provided by VSPDirect Photo Credit: Clint, Chris
All About Eyes
Our Staff
Dr. Dave
Dr. Cheryl
Products
Eye Glasses
Sunglasses
Sport Glasses
Contact Lenses
Vitamins for Eye Health
Insurance
New Patient Forms
Why Choose AAEYES
Contact Us
Health Blog
Eye Care Videos
Directions
FAQ
Recent Posts
Celebrate Earth Day! Recycle Your Contact Lenses
Anisocoria: One Pupil Larger Than the Other
How a Concussion Affects Vision
New Year, New Glasses!
Playing it Safe this Holiday Season
Recent Comments
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
September 2015
July 2015
June 2015
April 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
October 2013
August 2013
Categories
Articles
Blue Light
Conditions
En Espanol
Eye Health
Eye Safety
Lasik
Lenses
Procedures
Products
Uncategorized
Videos
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org