Fish Oil Health Benefits - The Latest Facts and Truths
Fantastic Fish Oil Health Benefits!
INVIGORATE AND ENERGIZE YOUR HEALTH
By Knowing which Components In Omega 3 Fish Oils Are The Most important!
Since you've arrived at this page you're already aware of the large range of awesome fish oil health benefits.
These medicinal, health promoting benefits are backed by multiple, credible clinical studies, (see below).
BUT.... Not All Fats Were Created Equal!
Two Omega 3 essential fatty acids called DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) are the leading active ingredients in fish oil primarily responsible for powering these wonderful improvements to your health and protecting you from a host of health destroying disease.
" DHA and EPA play a VITAL role in many metabolic processes"
They are known as essential fatty acids (EFA) because they are an essential dietary requirement for humans!
Our bodies need them to perform vitally important functions, but are unable to manufacture them. Therefore, we must take them in from outside sources (food and/or nutritional supplements).
In case you didn't know, the only way to gain DHA and also EPA in a natural, safe and easily assimilated form is from pure fish oil tablets / supplements. (If you take out word "safe" then we can add fatty fish meals as a rich source of DHA and EPA as well)!
To read about the current risks and recommendations for the consumption of fish just follow this link.
Now, have you heard of the third essential fatty acid called Alpha-linolenic acid (ALA)?
It is a precursor to DHA and EPA. This means your body has to convert ALA into DHA and EPA to obtain the benefits. If your health is compromised, or you are elderly, your body will have trouble with this complicated process. In any case the conversion rate for most people is negligible- only around 10%
ALA, once you get enough into you, is believed to offer similar benefits, although the scientific evidence is less compelling, and the beneficial effects are believed to be less pronounced. So basically it is less helpful. ALA is found some nuts (walnuts) and vegetable oils (canola, soybean, flaxseed/linseed, olive).
Omega-3 fatty acids are significant structural components of the cell membranes of tissues throughout your body. You can see why they are 'essential'! They are especially rich in the retina, brain, and sperm.
And unlike the active ingredients in many nutritional supplements, you can take comfort in the fact that EFA's have been EXTENSIVELY researched by scientists.
Remember- the range of fish oil health benefits is PROVEN!
But here's the problem:
Recent studies reveal that 90% of Americans OF ALL AGES don't get anywhere near enough Omega 3 from their diets!
I guess you've already heard something about this since you're here on this page.
Now before we talk in more detail about the fantastic range of fish oil health benefits that will be coming your way if you increase you omega 3 consumption, we MUST first talk briefly about Omega 6 essential fatty acids.
"Why" you ask? Because they are slowly killing a large sector of the population!
Hopefully that doesn't include YOU!
"A Fundamental Shift In The Omega-6/Omega-3 Ratio Has Given Rise To Diseases Of Modern Civilization"
Today the primary sources of Omega 6 fatty acids are refined commercial cooking oils; corn, soy, safflower, sunflower and canola.
Now, here's the crux!
Your body needs a carefully structured 1:1 balance of Omega 6 to Omega 3
Omega-6 provides beneficial effects in your body but if your Omega 6/Omega 3 daily intake goes out of balance these effects begin to overwhelm your body and cause serious health problems.
"Their thrombogenic (blood-clotting), pro-inflammatory action, when not attenuated by thrombolytic (blood-thinning and anti-clotting), anti-inflammatory properties of omega-3 prostaglandins, leads to the formation of potentially dangerous blood clots and throws the body into the state of chronic inflammation, giving rise to a whole array of clot- and inflammation-related chronic diseases, including thrombosis, arthritis, diabetes, and asthma."
The over-abundant use of Omega 6 rich cooking oils in our modern day food supply (fried fatty foods, potato chips, biscuits, pastries, snack foods, most processed foods ), has DESTROYED the optimal Omega 6 to Omega 3 ratio which for centuries had remained within the healthy 1:1 - 2:1.
Today it has reached a dramatic range of 14:1 - 25:1
This serious imbalance, along with the widespread use of synthetic trans fats, is strongly implicated not only in the inflammatory diseases mentioned above but also in the alarming rates of heart disease, cancer, autoimmune illnesses, and other chronic degenerative disease.
Because Omega-6 and Omega-3 fatty acids compete with each other to be converted to active metabolites in the body, benefits can be reached by decreasing intake of omega-6 fatty acids and increasing your intake of omega-3 fatty acids.
One of the most important fish oil health benefits is the ability of the oil to help correct this health-critical ratio.
Omega 3
(Type 3 Prostaglandins) Omega 6
(Type 2 Prostaglandins)
Decreased platelet aggregation (blood clotting) Increased platelet aggregation (blood clotting)
Vasodilation (widening of blood vessels) Vasoconstriction (narrowing of vessels)
Anti-inflammatory effect Pro-inflammatory effect
Immune system enhancement Immune system suppression
Increased oxygen flow Decreased oxygen flow
Decreased cell proliferation Increased cell proliferation
Decreased pain Increased pain
Widening of respiratory passages Narrowing of respiratory passages
Increased endurance Lowered endurance
See why we had to talk about Omega 6!
Now on a more positive note let's zoom in and look at all the incredible benefits that Omega 3 fish oil can provide to power YOU to more awesome, energized health.
Omega-3's are not just "good fats".
They are truly essential for health and vitality !
Fantastic Fish Oil Health Benefits
Promotes good overall health and wellness
Reduces risk for sudden death
Reduces all-cause mortality
Cardiovascular protective benefits (Lowers serum triglyceride levels & blood pressure, decreases the risk of coronary artery disease)
Promotes optimal LDL to HDL cholesterol ratio
Strengthens immune response (less susceptibility to allergies)
Anti-inflammatory activity
Protects and strengthens eye health
Supports healthy energy levels
Better joint function and mobility (e.g. Rheumatoid Arthritis)
Boosts skin health
Improves mental alertness and concentration
Helps keep tissues healthy
Helps promote healthy pregnancies
Preliminary studies suggest fish oil may reduce the risk of developing breast, colon, or prostate CANCER!
Disease Prevention
The Role Of Omega-3 EFA In Disease Prevention And Treatment
Cardiovascular Benefits Read the related clinical studies
GENERAL: Epidemiological studies have shown an inverse relationship between the consumption of fish containing EPA/DHA, or fish oil (EPA/DHA) supplements, and death from coronary heart disease.
This is supported by the American Heart Association guidelines, which recommend the benefits of consuming fish and fish oil.
http://www.americanheart.org/presenter.jhtml?identifier=4632
TRIGLYCERIDES: There is strong scientific evidence from human trials that omega-3 fatty acids from fish or fish oil supplements (EPA + DHA) significantly reduce blood triglyceride levels.
Research has also proven that DHA lowers the levels of small, dense particles of LDL cholesterol (the dangerous cholesterol) associated with heart disease.
The level of large buoyant particles of HDL cholesterol (the good cholesterol) is increased, which is supa dupa because it means less chance of heart attack and stroke.
Fish Oil Health Benefits For A Healthy Heart!
HYPERTENSION (high blood pressure): Fish oil has been shown to lower mild hypertension when it is due to cardiovascular disease, specifically high cholesterol and atherosclerosis (hardening of the artery walls).
Just ask my mum! Her high blood pressure normalized within 6 months of taking fish oil supplements.
ANTI-CLOTTING: Fish oil helps to avoid blood clots as it prevents platelets (the smallest cells in the blood) from sticking together to form clots.
REDUCES HEART IRREGULARITIES: Sudden death caused by sustained ventricular arrhythmias (disturbances of the normal rhythm in the heart's beating) accounts for 50 to 60 percent of all deaths in persons with coronary heart disease. (1)
Fish oil, particularly its DHA content, has been shown to lower heart rates and also prevent arrhythmias.
CIRCULATORY PROBLEMS: Circulatory problems such as varicose veins and Raynaud's disease benefit from fish oil. Fish oil stimulates blood circulation and increases the breakdown of fibrin, a compound involved in clot and scar formation.
Brain Function
Brain Function Read the related clinical studies
DEPRESSION: Omega 3 depression
Researchers have linked insufficient levels of omega-3 fatty acids, especially DHA, to depression.
Fatty acids are essential in the healthy formation of the brain's nerve cell membranes and membrane fluidity.
The brain is the richest source of fatty acids in the body, and because nerve cell function depends on proper membrane functioning and membrane fluidity, changes in membrane fluidity have a negative effect on behavior, mood and mental function.
AGGRESSION: A recent study of teenagers concluded that fish oil and DHA consumption relates to lower hostility rates in teenagers. Hostility has been shown to predict the development and manifestation of heart disease.
ATTENTION DEFICIT-HYPERACTIVITY DISORDER (ADHD), DYSLEXIA AND DYSPRAXIA: People suffering from ADHD, dyslexia and dyspraxia (inability to perform coordinated skilled movements or clumsiness) benefit from fish oil.
ADHD has been linked by research to lack of omega-3 fatty acids, necessary for formation and repair of brain cell membranes, especially in the developing central nervous system in children.
MEMORY, LEARNING AND ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE: Most studies show that fish oils (DHA and EPA) are essential to optimal brain function
Research confirms that intake of fish oil and DHA is able to help patients who have mild Alzheimer's disease. Since current drugs used for Alzheimer's disease are largely ineffective, and potentially dangerous, it is recommended to discuss with your doctor about initially trying omega-3 fatty acids in mild cases of AD.
Studies suggest that fish oil and DHA may protect the nervous system from degeneration. DHA and fish oil have been proven to stimulate memory and learning abilities.
Recent research demonstrated that mothers who supplement with DHA during the term of their pregnancy and lactation may increase the IQ of their babies. And everyone wants smarter babies, right!
Fish Oil Health Benefits
Natures Gift To Your Child !
Allergies
Allergies Read the related clinical studies
Clinical Studies reveal that omega-3 fatty acid intake by mothers during pregnancy may protect their babies against the development of allergies.
Fish oil has been shown to protect against symptoms of hay fever, sinus infections, asthma, food allergies and allergic skin conditions such as hives and eczema.
Fish oil lowers the level of airway narrowing (which causes restriction of breathing during an asthma attack) and calms inflammation.
Skin Health
Skin Disorders and Skin Health Read the related clinical studies
Fish oil has shown in studies to improve skin conditions such as psoriasis. The amount of compounds causing inflammation in the skin of psoriasis sufferers is much greater than normal.
Fish oil retards the manufacture of these inflammatory compounds.
Fish oil improves the condition of YOUR skin, nails and hair - what more could you ask for ladies?
One Of The Most Popular Fish Oil Health Benefits
RADIANT Looking Skin !
Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis Read the related clinical studies
Several studies (2,3) have found that fish oil at dosages of at least 3 g per day significantly reduced morning stiffness and the number of tender, swollen joints in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
These beneficial effects were more common in patients receiving higher dosages of fish oil and were not apparent until fish oil had been consumed for at least 3 months.
Diabetes
Diabetes Read the related clinical studies
Fish oil produces beneficial effects for non- insulin dependent diabetics or those with Type 2 diabetes.
Studies produced evidence showing that persons who consume 5-10% of their dietary energy intake from fish or fish oil (DHA + EPA) have reduced insulin resistance, which causes diminished glucose uptake and glucose metabolism in non-insulin dependent diabetics.
Fish oil boosts insulin secretion from beta cells in the pancreas, regulating blood sugar levels.
Immune System
Immune System and Cancer Read the related clinical studies
Fish oil consumption has been scientifically proven as beneficial for your body's immune function.
Several population (epidemiologic) studies report that dietary omega-3 fatty acids or fish oil may reduce the risk of developing breast, colon, or prostate cancer.
Dietary intake of n-3 (fish oils) and n-6 fatty acids and the risk of prostate cancer. Leitzmann MF, Stampfer MJ. Department of Health and Human Services, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. Am J Clin Nutr. 2004 Jul;80(1):204-16.
This study arrived at this conclusion: "Increased dietary intakes of ALA may increase the risk of advanced prostate cancer. In contrast, EPA and DHA (fish oils) intakes may reduce the risk of total and advanced prostate cancer."
Fish Oil Health Benefits Prevent And Treat
NUMEROUS LIFE-THREATENING DISEASES !
Specific Benefits For Women
Women's Benefits Read the related clinical studies
There is a lowered risk factor for osteoporosis and heart disease in post-menopausal women who take fish oil.
Fish oil consumption lessens pre-menstral symptoms such as menstrual pain! Now that's a wondrous benefit.
Omega-3 fatty acids are the precursors of type 3 prostaglandins - pain relieving substances that control contractions of the uterus, which cause the cramping.
Visual Function
Eye Health Read the related clinical studies
The rods and cones of the retina in the eyes are very rich in DHA.
A deficiency in dietary fish oils will, therefore, impair and lessen the photo-receptor activity of retinal cells, thereby reducing visual perception.
Conversely, fish oil supplementation could lead to visual improvement with enhanced color perception.
" Research has confirmed that fish oil lowers the risk of Age-Related Macular Degeneration "
Anti-Inflammatory
Inflammatory Bowel Disease Read the related clinical studies
Fish oil is beneficial to your intestinal health.
Its anti-inflammatory effects are helpful in cases of inflammatory bowel disease (Ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease) which has been established in clinical studies.
Which Fish Oil Do I Use?
The Omega 3 Fish Oil my family and I use passes all criteria listed above on this page!
INTRODUCING
Omega 3 / DHA Fish Oil 'Premium'
At around $20 for a month's supply, it's unbelievably affordable (considering it's a 'Premium' Grade Oil offering potent skin (aka 'BEAUTY) benefits in addition to all the usual health benefits of Omega 3 fish oil).
One of its greatest strengths comes from the fact that 50% of the oil (the tuna oil component) is in ester form (and not the common triglyceride form) meaning it has much greater bioavailability (absorption).
And that means more MORE EFFECTIVENESS AND VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY!
I've yet to find a more superior Omega 3 fish oil
Considering the miraculous range of fish oil health benefits and what they can do to your health, it's just plain good sense to take in more DHA and EPA from a completely SAFE, superior fish oil ( providing of course it's affordable) as part of your daily health strategy, (regardless of your age or health status).
Sources
Leaf A, Kang JX, Xiao YF, Billman GE. Clinical prevention of sudden cardiac death by n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and mechanism of prevention of arrhythmias by n-3 fish oils. Circulation 2003;107:2646-52.
Kremer JM, Lawrence DA, Jubiz W, DiGiacomo R, Rynes R, Bartholomew LE, et al. Dietary fish oil and olive oil supplementation in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Clinical and immunologic effects. Arthritis Rheum 1990;33:810-20.
Volker D, Fitzgerald P, Major G, Garg M. Efficacy of fish oil concentrate in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. J Rheumatol 2000;27:2343-6.
Fantastic Fish Oil Health Benefits
Start Getting Yours Today!
New! Comments
Nutritional Supplement Truths!
Tons of Tips for Terrific Health
Healthy Happy Energized Disease Free
Search This Site
Home
Comparisons / Reviews
Stay-Up-To-Date
Super Supplements
Anti Aging Facts
Evaluate Supplements
What I Use
YOUR Questions
Why Supplements
Anti Aging Wrinkle Cures
Latest Fish Oil Facts
Mens Vitamins
Mens Sexual Health
Prostate Health
Goji
Womens Vitamins
Menopause
Womens Sex Health
Herbal Supplements
Diabetes
Brain Health
Amino Acids
Sports Supplements
Liquid Supplements
Minerals
Arthritis
Search This Site
Site Map
Contact Me
About Me
Health Quote
"Give me health and a day and I will make the pomp of emperors ridiculous."
- Ralph Waldo Emerson
Recent Articles
Growing Problem
Apr 16, 19 11:13 PM
Hello. My name is Danial, I'm in England. My age is sixteen and I have a question. I'm not growing so which type of nutritonal supplement do you suggest
Read More
'Orachel Plus' For Damaged Lung Tissue
Apr 01, 19 04:29 AM
Hello, Can you please tell me whether the supplement 'Orachel Plus' can help damaged lung tissue? Nutritional-Supplement-Truths Response: Hello
Read More
Total Balance Supplements Product Review
Mar 14, 19 05:47 AM
An in depth review of the supplement, Total Balance, which claimed 1st place in a comparison of the best vitamin supplements.
Read More
Some of the articles on this site include affiliate links, (Xtend-Life), providing nutritional-supplement-truths a small commission if you make a purchase - at no additional cost to you. Of course, you are not obligated to use these links to make a purchase, but if you do, it helps to support this site. You can read my affiliate disclosure here
Unlock the potential to
'AGE-DEFY'
Your Skin
Omega 3/DHA
Fish Oil Premium
Click Here To Learn More
'Clinically Proven' Cell Rejuvenation, Age Defying Skin Care Formulations
Click Here To Learn More
Site Map | Contact Me | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | About Me
Copyright© 2005 -2019 by Brett Seagrott Nutritional-Supplement-Truths.com All Rights Reserved