Can Beta-Carotene in Carrot Juice Damage the Eyes? | Healthfully
x
healthfully
Search Glass
Diseases and Injuries
Family Health
Nutrition
Weight Management
Appearance
Blurred Vision From Fish Oil
Magnesium & Glaucoma
Beginning Stages of Cataracts
N-Acetylcysteine & the Eye
Wine & Glaucoma
Does Eating Carrots Keep Your Eyes Healthy?
Can Beta-Carotene in Carrot Juice Damage the Eyes?
By Kate Beck
Related Articles
Blurred Vision From Fish Oil
Magnesium & Glaucoma
Beginning Stages of Cataracts
N-Acetylcysteine & the Eye
Carrots have a reputation for helping your eyes, but eating carrots or drinking the juice will not improve your eyesight. However, beta carotene, a nutrient found in carrots and carrot juice may help prevent certain eye conditions. As such, the beta carotene found in carrot juice will not damage your eyes, but, instead, may offer benefits. Your doctor can help you determine how much beta carotene you should consume through carrot juice and other foods or supplements each day.
Study
An eye disease called macular degeneration affects the central area of the back of your eye, resulting in tissue damage that leads to vision loss. In 2001 the National Eye Institute released the findings of a study showing that beta carotene, when accompanied by vitamin E, vitamin C, zinc and copper, helps reduce the likelihood of advanced damage of macular degeneration by 25 percent. This shows that beta carotene does not harm your eyes, but may have important benefits in preserving your vision.
Other Benefits
The antioxidant properties of beta carotene found in carrot juice and other sources of the nutrient may also help reduce the incidence of cataract formation. Inside your eye you have a lens consisting of protein and water, and this lens refracts light onto the back of your eye, a vital process in vision. A cataract forms when the cells in the natural lens breaks down, turning the lens hard and opaque. Beta carotene cannot reverse this damage to the lens, but may help slow down the process or prevent cataract formation altogether.
Beta carotene may also help prevent or treat other eye conditions such as retinitis pigmentosa and conditions involving the cornea.
Risks
Although drinking carrot juice or taking other forms of beta carotene does not have any known harmful effects on your eyes, if you smoke, consuming high amounts of this nutrient could prove harmful. In fact, if you smoke and have a high intake of beta carotene you have an increased risk for heart disease and certain types of cancer.
Considerations
Before including large quantities of carrot juice or other sources of beta carotene in your diet, talk with your doctor. She can help you create an eating plan that will include carrot juice but that will also help you reach the necessary intake of other vitamins and minerals. Vision changes or eye conditions may not stem from carrot juice, but if you do experience changes, inform your eye doctor immediately.
Video of the Day
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
References
University of Maryland Medical Center; Beta-Carotene; Steven D. Ehrlich, NMD
USDA: Nutrient Data Laboratory: Carrot, Carrot Juice, Canned, 1 Cup
National Eye Institute: The AREDS Formulation and Age-Related Macular Degeneration
All About Vision; Vitamin A and Beta Carotene: Eye Benefits; Gary Heiting, OD
About the Author
Kate Beck started writing for online publications in 2005. She worked as a certified ophthalmic technician for 10 years before returning to school to earn a Masters of Fine Arts degree in writing. Beck is currently putting the finishing touches on a novel.
More Related Articles
What Causes Eye Floaters in Vision?
Differences Between Human Eye and Camera
The Side Effects on the Eyes When Valerian Root Is Taken Orally
Related Articles
Does Eating Carrots Keep Your Eyes Healthy?
Read More
Foods to Help Prevent Cataracts
Read More
Get Fit!
Try our healthfully BMI and weight loss calculator!
Spots in a Person's Eye
Read More
What Eye Problems are Typical With Crohn's Disease?
Read More
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the HEALTHFULLY.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on HEALTHFULLY.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. HEALTHFULLY.COM does not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the website.