What Are Advantages & Disadbantages of Using Fish Oil Supplements? | Healthy Eating | SF Gate
SFGate
Healthy Eating
by Demand Media
News
Sports
Business
A&E
Food
Living
Travel
Columns
More
Less
Cars
Jobs
Real Estate
Find&Save
Skip to main content.
Healthy Eating
Diet
Cholesterol
by Leaf Group
Healthy Eating
Diet
Cholesterol
What Are Advantages & Disadbantages of Using Fish Oil Supplements?
Written by THOMAS WILLIAMS ; Updated December 14, 2018
What Are Advantages & Disadbantages of Using Fish Oil Supplements?
Related Articles
1 How Much Fish Oil Should Seniors Take?
2 Fish Oil Risks
3 Is Fish Oil Good for Teens?
4 Recommended Amounts of DHA & EPA Daily
Fish oil supplements contain omega-3 fatty acids from fish species such as herring, tuna, salmon, halibut and whale blubber. They contain vitamin E in small quantities to prolong their shelf life. The supplements may as well have vitamins A, C and D in addition to minerals such as iron and calcium to boost their nutritional and medicinal value. Consumption of fish oil supplements can, however, have advantages and disadvantages.
Advantage: Improve Cardiovascular Health
Eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid -- also known as the two omega-3 fatty acids -- lower cholesterol and blood pressure levels. EPA and DHA also reduce the triglycerides that can lead to abnormal heartbeat and increase chances of heart attack and stroke. MayoClinic.com further notes that fish oil supplements slow down accumulation of atherosclerotic plaques that may cause blood circulation problems by hardening your arteries.
Advantage: Rheumatoid Arthritis Management
Fish oil supplements assist in the management of autoimmune medical conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, which affects bones and joints. They reduce joint inflammation, morning stiffness and potentially your dependence on non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications, or NSAIDs. As a result, taking fish oil supplements may lower your cost of managing rheumatoid arthritis. These supplements can only control the symptoms, however; they can’t stop the disease from progressing. You should still consult your doctor and continue your medication as recommended.
Disadvantage: Hemorrhagic Stroke Risks
Consuming more than three grams of omega-3 fatty acids is, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center, equivalent to having three servings of fish a day. The center notes that this can put you in danger of developing hemorrhagic stroke. This type of stroke occurs when one or more arteries in your brain ruptures and causes a life-threatening hemorrhage.
Disadvantage: Toxicity Problems
Environmental pollutants such as arsenic, lead, mercury and cadmium in waterways can accumulate in fish. These metals may be difficult to eliminate through some industrial processes used in the manufacture of fish oil supplements and ingesting them can cause cognitive impairment and nervous system dysfunction. The Heart Foundation notes that you can avoid these complications by purchasing certified fish supplements to ensure that the omega-3 ingredients in them meet international standards and are free of toxic substances.
References (5)
MedlinePlus: Fish Oil
University of Maryland Medical Center: Omega-3 Fatty Acids
MayoClinic.com: Omega-3 Fatty Acids, Fish Oil, Alpha-Linolenic Acid
Mother Nature Network: The Truth About Fish Oil
Heart Foundation: About the Fish Oil Program
About the Author
Based in London, Thomas Williams has been professionally writing health-related articles for more than 10 years. His articles appeared in " Nottingham Evening Post.” Williams is a Masters holder in Clinical Science from the University of Liverpool.
bibliography-icon icon for annotation tool Cite this Article
Choose Citation Style
MLA
APA
Chicago (B)
, THOMAS. "What Are Advantages & Disadbantages of Using Fish Oil Supplements?" Healthy Eating | SF Gate, http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/advantages-disadbantages-using-fish-oil-supplements-9555.html. 14 December 2018.
, THOMAS. (2018, December 14). What Are Advantages & Disadbantages of Using Fish Oil Supplements? Healthy Eating | SF Gate. Retrieved from http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/advantages-disadbantages-using-fish-oil-supplements-9555.html
, THOMAS. "What Are Advantages & Disadbantages of Using Fish Oil Supplements?" last modified December 14, 2018. http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/advantages-disadbantages-using-fish-oil-supplements-9555.html
Copy Citation
Note: Depending on which text editor you're pasting into, you might have to add the italics to the site name.
Related Articles
What Is More Beneficial: Krill Oil or DHA Supplements?
Does Fish Oil Omega 3 Make You Gain Weight?
What Are the Benefits of Bilberry Supplements?
Risk of Taking Krill Oil
Symptoms of Low Vitamin D3
What Are the Benefits of Taking Essential Fatty Acids?
More Articles
Types of Fish Oil Supplements
The Amount of Fish Oil Taken by a Breastfeeding Mom
Nutrition for Muscles & Nerves
Side Effects of Too Many Fish Oil Supplements
Is Salmon Good for the Heart?
The Effects of Taking Fish Oil Gelcaps
Return to top ➡
About
Contact
Connect
Subscribe
Privacy Notice Your California Privacy Rights Interest Based Ads Terms of Use Our Company The Press: Guide to Wine Country Green State: Cannabis Culture Careers Advertising
Customer Service Newsroom Contacts
Sign up for Email Alerts Facebook Twitter Pinterest Google Instagram
SFChronicle.com App e-edition The Chronicle Archives Subscription Offers Store Subscriber Services
Copyright 2018 Hearst Newspapers, LLC