Pylons - Child Leukaemia
[ Tim's web ] [ Home ] [ Up ] [ Site map ] [ Contact ] [ Feedback ] [ Bioenergy links ] [ GOOGLE Search ] [ Energy Systems ] [ Human Tests ] [ Protection Products ] [ Research ] [ Mailers ]
WARNING! EMF radiation from this PC depletes your bioenergy! Get protection for your safety!
Cellphone Risks
Cellphone dangers - Industry knows
Mobile Cell Stress = Cancer
Acoustic Neuromas
Blood-brain barrier breached
Brain tumour from cellphones
Brain cancer Review
Cellphone excites brain cortex
Deadly Obsession cellphones
Ear tumours up 4x due cellphones
Loss of hearing due cellphones
DNA damage Cellphone Radiation
Endothelial stress to brain
Gliomas up 40% - 10 years CP use
GSM damages brain neurons
Video: Cellphones disrupt hospital equipment
Cellph Risks 2
Health fears - Cellphones
Mobile health implications
Infertility from cellphones
Sperm count reduced by cellphones
Mobiles damage DNA
Mobiles breach blood-brain barrier
Rural risk higher with cellphones
Scientists avoid mobiles
Alzheimer's triggered by phones
Sperm reduced by 1/3rd
US$30k payout -cellphone cancer
Visual damage from mobiles
Work absence up -mobiles
Mobiles interfere vital hospital equip
Child Risks
Radiation from Baby Monitor risky
Fetal exposure RF - Autism
Leukaemia 5x higher -Magnetic fields in homes
Cellphones hazardous 4 children
Emeritus Professor view cellphones as cigs of 21st C.
Cellphones endanger children more
Child brain effect shock -cellphone
Child brain tumour -cellphones
Child Warning over mobiles UK
Cellphones for Kids - Risks
Cellphone worse for child
Health fears - Mobiles
Sperm count reduced by cellphones
Mobiles damage DNA
Infertility from cellphones
Warning Cellphones UK study
UK & French warnings
Vienna Drs Warning: Child use Cellphones
Leukaemia -Power lines
Child autism from EMF
Dangers - EMF
Cordless phone high risk
Sensitive to things Electrical - a Chief Exec's warning
Electrosensitivity - Health Issues
Breast cancer EMF cause 2006
Breast cancer EMF in Home
Adverse effects of EMF
Cumulative effect from EMF
Screen use ups glaucoma
Visual damage from EMF frequencies
Video camera use -brain tumours
RF frequencies cause cancer
Fed. warning - cordless phones
What doctors warn: Freiburger links with illness
Benevento scientists caution
How radio frequency EMR harms you
What is your exposure to EMFs?
Danger articles
Safety regulations are inadequate
RF frequencies do cause cancer
Women & Children more Exposed
Hormone disruption from EMFs
Electropollution, Hormones, Cancer
Cumulative effect of EMF
EMF affects your Brain
EMF affects to humans
Range of health effects from EMF
EMR causes cancer
Visual damage from EMFs
Insurance risks
Reinsurers avoid cellphone risks
Human Tests
MSAS bioenergy test video
How radio frequency EMR harms you
Cellphone effect on you
Computer effect on you
Cordless phone effect on you
Television effect on you
Shaver's effect on you
Vehicle effect on you
MSAS bioenergy tests Auckland
MSAS bioenergy tests Toronto
Inst. Vital Energetics: Cellphones
Biolife body energy enhancer
Blood microscopy Stress reduction
Smart Card fluid energiser
Smart Card food energiser
Home-Office Harmoniser
Protection
Buy effective GIA Wellness protection
EMF Stress Effects Outline
Biopro Solutions to be Safe
Thermographic Imaging of Cell Chip Benefit
Amazing Biolife Pendant
Biolife blood micro. stress reduce
Smart Card drinks energiser
Smart Card food energiser
Bioproduce "star burst" vitality
Amazing Home-Office Harmoniser
News Shocks
Radiation from Baby Monitor risky
Radiation Risks Real
11% affected by phones
2 in 3 people now affected by EMFs
Cordless phone high risk
Respiratory Disease -Electrosmog
10th Breast cancer -ABC studio closes
9th Breast cancer -ABC Newsroom
Personal accounts of breast cancer sufferers in ABC
Breast cancer EMF cause 2006
Breast cancer -EMFs & Environ factors
Breast cancer - EMF in homes
Bee navigation disrupted
Benevento Statement of Concerned Scientists
Nth Sth ltr EMF hazard
BBC studio Video Cam brain tumours
Reinsurers avoid cellphone risks
WiFi Dangers
WiFi - Hi Tech Horrors caution
WiFi Health Time Bomb
WiFi health worries
Children at Risk from Electro Smog
WiFi Reasons for Health Concerns
WiFi Outline
WiFi myths debunked
Federal Govt warning on WLAN
EU watchdog WiFi warning
WiFi radiation 3x cell masts
Worried Families ditch WiFi
Salzburg Health against WLAN
UK Schools dismantle WiFi
WLAN - a Doctor's account
RF Mast Danger
Cellphone Masts - Awful Truth
Cell Masts Cancer Clusters UK
RMIT Top Floor Cancers - Masts on Roof
How Mast Radiation affects U -Hyland
ICRW Harm Mechanisms
Health & Environ effects RF Radiation
Cumulative effect from EMF
Masts - Sleep Disturbance
Fire Fighters refuse Masts
Pylons & Wiring
Leukaemia -Power lines
Draper Study: Cancer-Power lines
Breast: Cancer -HiVolt Power lines -Melatonin effect
Leukaemia 5x higher -Magnetic fields in homes
Pylons - Child Leukaemia
Pylons Caused Son's Cancer
Pwr Lines Double Cancer risk for Children
Pylons constant Radiation - Cancer
Pylons links to Disease
Pylons double Miscarriages
Pwr Lines Cancers in Massey
Pylon links to Cancers in Hunuas
Chronic Fatigue - Appliance EMF
EMF Research
LATEST -Science reveals Mech of Harm
LATEST Global Review: EMR Dangers verified
Safety regulations are inadequate - US views
Safety guidelines inadequate - UK perspective
Physics & Biology of Mobile Telephony -Hyland
Scientists Benento Caution
EMF affects to humans
Fetal exposure RF - Autism
How ICRW radio waves harm you
Dr Carlo discloses hazards
ERK activation cell harm
Inst. Vital Energetics: Cellphones
Studies on Microwave Radiation
Energy systems
About EMF - What is it?
Atoms - an EMF force holds them together
How EMF waves affect atoms
EMF disrupts your bioenergy -Kirlian images
Your Biofield - your body's energy system
Subtle Energy - your body's signals
Intellectual Energy
EMR - understanding effects
Environmental EMF basics
Schumann resonances of Planet & life
BioE mailers
Bioenergy Mailer Aug 2007
Bioenergy Mailer Feb 2007
Bioenergy Mailer Jan 2007
Bioenergy Mailer Nov 2006
Your body has an energy signalling system that's vital for its proper function. See Energy Systems. You need to protect it!
Don't exposure yourself to EMFs without protection. You wouldn't expose yourself to the sun for hours - you'd get skin cancer soon enough. EMF is invisible and every day EMF stress affects your body putting your health at risk; a wide range of symptoms result. Just read What Doctors warn. EMF radiation depletes bioenergy, compromising your immune system! There is a cumulative effect. Take advantage of my website to find out more about these modern day hazards.
An amazing new protection that really works is now available with GIA Wellness. You can avoid adverse health risks and enjoy a New Generation of Wellness in an increasingly electropolluted world. Electropollution is a real environmental toxin.
Especially don't expose your child to EMFs. They have a lifetime more to bear this and the full extent of risks is not yet known!
London - Friday, 3 June, 2005
Pylons 'may be a leukaemia risk'
Living too close to overhead power lines appears to increase the risk of childhood leukaemia, researchers say.
A major study found children who had lived within 200m of high voltage lines at birth had a 70% higher risk of leukaemia than those 600m or more away.
But the Oxford University team stressed that there are no accepted biological reasons for the results and that they may, therefore, be chance.
Alternatively, it may be down to the environments where pylons are located.
And they said it did not resolve the debate about whether it was unsafe to live next to power lines.
Around 1% of homes in the UK are estimated to be within 200m of high voltage National Grid power lines.
The researchers said their findings showed living in such close proximity to power lines at birth could account for five extra cases of childhood leukaemia in a total of around 400 that occur in a year - a total of 1%.
The British Medical Journal study did not look at level of exposure to magnetic fields.
But other scientists who have considered the issue have suggested that low frequency magnetic fields, such as those caused by the production of electricity, could possibly be linked to cancer.
However, others have disputed this link. And experts agree that there are likely to be many factors involved in leukaemia, including genes and the environment.
Even if the apparent risk was found to be real, the number of cases of leukaemia that would result would be very few, said the authors.
The study
The latest study was carried out by Dr Gerald Draper and colleagues from the Childhood Cancer Research Group at Oxford University, and Dr John Swanson, a scientific adviser at National Grid Transco.
It looked at more than 29,000 children with cancer, including 9,700 with leukaemia, born between 1962 and 1995, and a control group of healthy youngsters in England and Wales.
The researchers measured the distance from children's home addresses at birth from the nearest high voltage power line.
They found that 64 children with leukaemia lived within 200m of the line, while 258 lived between 200-600m away.
Overall, youngsters living within 200m of the lines were about 70% more likely to develop leukaemia, and those living between 200 and 600m away about 20% more likely to develop leukaemia than those who lived beyond 600m from high voltage pylons.
Although the trend was definite, the researchers said they could not reasonably explain why it occurred.
For this reason, they caution that it might be down to factors other than the pylons themselves, such as the type of people who live near pylons or the general environment where pylons are located, which they plan to investigate.
Debate
Eddie O'Gorman, chairman of the UK charity Children with Leukaemia, said: "There is now a clear case for immediate government action.
"Planning controls must be introduced to stop houses and schools being built close to high voltage overhead power lines."
But Professor John Toy, Cancer Research UK's Medical Director, said: "People who currently live or have lived near power lines in the past need not panic about this research. The triggers that cause childhood leukaemia are most likely a random course of events over which a parent has no control.
A spokesman from the Health Protection Agency said the study findings suggested that at least some of the increased leukaemia risk might be associated with factors other than electromagnetic fields.
Dr David Grant, of Leukaemia Research, said: "We recognise there is a lot of public anxiety and concern about living close to pylons and exposure to power-frequency magnetic fields.
"There is no reason why anyone should be advised to move house on the basis of these new results."
There are around 7,000km of high voltage power lines involved in the transmission of electricity across England and Wales, and 21,800 steel pylons.
You have a sophisticated body electronics system that is vital to its function. So don't allow yourself to be exposed to health risks invisibly imposed by EMF radiation from electric & magnetic fields and pulsed microwave transmission signals, which are at frequencies that disrupt your brain and cellular functions. Cellphone and cordless phone use does carry well-established risks! EMF stress occurs with all other electric and electronic devices, too. There are adverse health effects - see What Doctors Warn. Scientific studies have shown that EMF exposure has a cumulative effect, increasing over time. Be sure to reduce the risks for your children who face a lifetime of exposure and those with poorer health conditions, they are especially at risk. For an appreciation of this start at Child Risks.
Depletion of your body's bioenergy causes a lowered energetic capability, at a fundamental atomic level. See Atoms & EMF. Disturbance of it's inherent bioenergetic system results in disruptions to cellular functions and a compromised immune system. Start at Energy Systems. Quite simply, your body systems are no longer able to work in the way that they would if such destructive interference from EMR was not imposed on you. To see how human energies are affected by common electronic devices see bioenergy test charts showing patterns typical of that experienced by everyone from Human Tests.
If you can't understand why the authorities are allowing you to be exposed to such risks, start at my Research page. So-called "safety" regulations only consider thermal (tissue heating) effects, but frighteningly disregard low frequency biological effects. Strong vested interests resist change to this in spite of mounting evidence. For your own health and safety, and sustainable wellness, you need to adopt the Precautionary Principle with some urgency to avoid the risks of the invisible hazard of EMR that do compromise your health. You can now make use of the amazing new GIA Wellness protection available to reduce the effects of EMR, and have the chance to enjoy sustainable wellness. See GIA Wellness Protection Products.
Find out more so you can immediately protect yourself and achieve optimal health in our increasingly electropolluted world.
GET PROTECTION to avoid ADVERSE HEALTH EFFECTS and the CUMULATIVE EFFECTS.
Health and safety needs to be treated seriously. Be sure to get GIA Wellness (formerly Biopro Technology) protection for others that you care about, too. Tell others about my website and the wealth of information it provides so they can avail themselves of this and the amazing new Biopro protection against the adverse health risks of increasing exposure to EMF in our modern technological world.
INTERESTING STUFF? GET THE LATEST BY ADDING YOURSELF & OTHERS TO MY MAILER LIST ON MY BIOENERGY MAILERS PAGE
Others to assist in worthwhile protection enterprise?
Do you know of any enterprising people who care about others and may like to join with me in this worthwhile undertaking of providing protection to others from this growing EMF radiation hazard? You'll enjoy an additional income stream, too.
* Free Bioenergy test subject to product purchase and reasonable proximity to me or you pay travel costs, all at my discretion.
Other sections - [ EMF Dangers ] [ Significant EMF News ] [ EMF Danger articles ] [ Energy Systems ] [ Human-Tests ] [ Protection Products ] [ Research ] [ Feedback ]
E mail Tim Leitch here or use my Feedback page. Any hyperlink issues, please let me know by email. Thanks.
Always being enhanced.
Copyright © 2005-2012 Tim Leitch. Last modified: 13 Jul 2011
Any use of material from this site must include a clear link back to this website.
To Top