How Your Food Can Protect You From Colon Cancer - Lentein
toggle menu
About
Sustainability
Process
Products
Statistics
Press
Blog
Contact
How Your Food Can Protect You From Colon Cancer
Approximately 1 out of 20 people will develop colon cancer, according to the American Cancer Society. Colon cancer is the third most common type of cancer and it affects both men and women. To identify your colon cancer risk, the American Cancer Society recommends colon screenings, especially if you have a family history of colon cancer. However, to reduce your risk, take matters into your own hands and adjust your diet, as the connection between diet and colon cancer is one of the strongest links and also the easiest to correct. Consuming a greater number of fruits, vegetables and plant-based proteins such as LENTEIN™, protects you from colon cancer and significantly reduces your risk of passing from this condition.
Foods to Protect Against Colon Cancer
You have probably already heard the risks surrounding red meat and heart disease, but red meat is also a known culprit for colon cancer. The reasons behind this vary, but researchers in England found a higher concentration of cancer-causing chemicals in the stools and colon lining of those who consumed high amounts of red meat. Since red meats are eaten as a way to fuel the body with important proteins, a substitute is needed to provide the body with the protein building benefits, yet eliminate the cancer-causing risk. Further adjustments in a diet also provide essential vitamins and minerals and fiber that are often limited when a diet consists mainly of animal products.
The American Cancer Society recommends reducing consumption of meats such as lamb, beef and pork, and increasing consumption of vegetables, fruits, and whole grains. To support this dietary change, the researchers in England found a link between fruit and vegetable eating and reduced colon cancer. The participants who consumed a plant-based diet, had the lowest concentrations of cancer-causing chemicals in the colon, which correlates with a reduced cancer risk. In combination with increasing your fruit and vegetable intake, adding plant-based proteins such as LENTEIN™ to your diet significantly reduces your risk of colon cancer.
Along with reducing your colon cancer risk, fruits and vegetables provide other protective measures. For example, these foods have a high fiber content, which leads to bowel movement regularity. This regularity can reduce the amount of time that waste sits in your colon, which eliminates toxin absorption. In addition, the antioxidant properties of vegetables and fruits bind free radicals in your system. Free radicals can damage cells and have the potential to turn into cancer. Plant-based proteins such as LENTEIN™ contain essential antioxidants to protect you from colon cancer and also contain dietary fiber to help with bowel regularity.
Other foods linked with colon cancer include processed meats such as lunch meats and hot dogs. The concern with these foods are the nitrates, which The Harvard Medical School warns are turned carcinogenic by the body during digestion. Eliminating carcinogens, which are cancer-causing agents, protects you from colon cancer.
Fulfilling Dietary Needs
If you are a meat eater, you may be wondering how to fulfill your dietary needs without increasing your cancer risk. One of the nice benefits of fruits and vegetables such as apples, spinach and strawberries is that they make you feel full due to the fiber. An easy way to increase your fiber consumption is by adding these foods in as a snack. You can also make smoothies for breakfast or between meals. When you add protein, such as LENTEIN™ to a fruit or vegetable smoothie, you feel fuller longer, improve your intake of fiber and also have added the cell-boosting amino acids from the protein. In addition to amino acids, fiber and vitamins and minerals, look for other nutritional components when choosing your plant-based proteins. These include nutrients such as calcium, iron and Omega-3’s. Always speak with your doctor or dietitian to determine your appropriate daily intake of all nutrients and to determine other ways to protect yourself from colon cancer. Keep in mind the benefits of a plant-based diet for supporting your health goals so consider adding fruits and vegetables between meals for snacks or fill your meal plate with them to reduce your colon cancer risk. In addition, both your dietary needs and cancer-reducing goals are fulfilled when your diet contains a plant-based protein such as LENTEIN™.