How to Lower Cholesterol Naturally!
Home
Blog
Contact
How to Lower Cholesterol Naturally!
Now you can lower cholesterol naturally by following these 7 simple steps. High cholesterol levels, or more specifically, high levels of oxidised LDL 'bad' cholesterol, are strongly associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease.
Therefore, finding ways to reduce the level of LDL cholesterol in your body as well as increase the level of HDL 'good' cholesterol, will go a long way in helping to reduce your risk of cardiovascular disease.
In this article we will cover 7 simple steps you can take to help lower cholesterol naturally without resorting to the use of medication. The steps involve lifestyle changes you can make including the foods you should incorporate into your diet to lower cholesterol.
By using these principles and allowing enough time for them to take effect, you can rest assured that you will be able to lower cholesterol naturally and therefore, reduce your risk of cardiovascular disease.
Here Are 7 Steps
to Lower Cholesterol Naturally:
Eat more high fibre foods
Fibre, or more specifically, soluble fibre is extremely effective in helping you lower cholesterol naturally. It does this through two mechanisms. Firstly, soluble fibre binds to cholesterol in the gut and prevents its re-absorption into the body. Since cholesterol is a component of bile and bile is used to emulsify (make soluble in water) and digest fats in the gut, there is often a substantial amount of cholesterol present there.
When the cholesterol is bound to soluble fibre and excreted by the body, the liver needs to make up for this loss by producing more bile. In order to create more bile the liver pulls LDL cholesterol from the blood stream. This lowers your blood level of cholesterol.
The second mechanism through which soluble fibre may lower cholesterol naturally is by inhibiting the production of cholesterol in the liver. This is achieved because the bacteria in the large intestine of our body ferment the soluble fibre. This process creates short-chain fatty acids, which are then re-absorbed into the body. These fatty acids then travel to the liver where they inhibit the production of cholesterol.
Some great sources of soluble fibre include: oats (which contains beta glucan- a type of soluble fibre), psyllium husks, apples, beans, peas and citrus fruits. These cholesterol lowering foods should always be included in a diet to lower cholesterol.
Fruits and vegetables are also beneficial in helping to reduce your risk of cardiovascular disease because they contain phytosterols. These are antioxidants that can help to prevent the oxidation of LDL cholesterol and oxidised LDL cholesterol is strongly linked to cardiovascular disease.
Exercise regularly
Regular exercise is another very effective way to lower cholesterol naturally. It works by assisting people with their weight-loss efforts. Since overweight people tend to have high levels of LDL cholesterol in their blood stream, burning off body fat and losing weight can help to lower the level of LDL cholesterol in their body.
Exercise, particularly high intensity aerobic exercise, has also been shown to stimulate the activity of enzymes that move LDL cholesterol from the blood and the blood vessel walls to the liver where it can be used to create bile salts.
Also, HDL 'good' cholesterol has been shown to increase as a result of regular exercise. This occurs because exercise reduces the level of hepatic lipase in the liver. Hepatic lipase is a liver enzyme that breaks down HDL cholesterol. Therefore, by reducing its level in the liver, HDL cholesterol can remain high in the blood stream and can therefore carry more cholesterol back to the liver from the blood stream for conversion into bile.
Exercise is also a great way to relieve stress and high stress levels are associated with high levels of LDL cholesterol.
Lose weight
Being overweight increases your risk of cardiovascular disease because it tends to raise serum triglyceride levels and total cholesterol levels, especially the LDL 'bad' cholesterol. Losing weight can help lower your LDL and total cholesterol levels, as well as raise your HDL 'good' cholesterol.
Reduce your sugar intake
A high intake of sugar causes high blood sugar levels. High blood sugar levels may be converted into triglycerides in the liver, which are then sent around the body via the various lipoproteins including low-density lipoproteins (LDL), very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) and chylomicrons. Since a high level of LDLs is correlated with a high risk of cardiovascular disease.
Sugar also oxidises LDL cholesterol and oxidised LDL cholesterol is one of the strongest indicators of cardiovascular disease. That is one of the reasons why diabetics have higher rates of cardiovascular disease compared to the general population. One of the best ways to reduce the blood sugar level apart from reducing your sugar intake, is to use glucose disposal agents.
It is also worthwhile using a powerful antioxidant supplement like, SuperFood Blend in order to reduce the potential for LDL cholesterol being oxidised.
Moderate your coffee and alcohol intake
The research on the relationship between cholesterol levels and two of the most popular beverages, coffee and alcohol, appears to be mixed.
With regards to coffee, it appears that regular coffee consumption may actually reduce your risk of cardiovascular disease. However, some studies have shown that certain compounds present in coffee called, terpenes, are responsible for raising LDL levels in the body and LDL cholesterol is correlated with increased cardiovascular disease risk. Brewing methods may determine the level of terpenes in coffee. Paper filters remove virtually all of the terpenes in coffee, whilst the terpenes may be present when other brewing methods are used.
Nevertheless, there is no conclusive data determining whether or not coffee consumption should be avoided in order to help lower cholesterol naturally so, at this stage, enjoy drinking coffee in moderation.
Moderate alcohol consumption has also been shown to be beneficial because it increases the level of HDL 'good' cholesterol in the blood stream. However, beyond 1 or 2 standard drinks a day, the liver increases its production of LDL 'bad' cholesterol. Therefore, if you have a high cholesterol level you must be very cautious when it comes to alcohol consumption.
Use natural, cholesterol-lowering supplements
There are a few supplements that have been shown to lower cholesterol naturally. One of the most effective are garlic supplements. High-quality garlic supplements like, Nature's Bounty Odorless Garlic 1000 mg , contain concentrated levels of garlic's active ingredients that have been shown in scientific studies to block HMG-CoA activity in the liver. This is the enzyme responsible for cholesterol production. Many cholesterol-lowering drugs lower this enzyme as well but may have unwanted side effects associated with their use. This makes the consumption of garlic as a food or as a concentrated supplement, the preferred option for many people.
Omega-3s may also be beneficial in helping to lower cholesterol naturally but only if they replace saturated fats in the diet. Therefore, it is certainly beneficial to use omega-3 supplements like, fish oil or flax seed oil but keep your intake moderate. In fact, there is some research indicating that omega-3 may raise LDL levels slightly. Nevertheless, omega-3s have several mechanisms through which they may help to reduce your cardiocascular disease risk. These include, reducing inflammation in the body as well as having blood-thinning effects.
Reduce your stress levels
High stress levels are associated with high cholesterol levels. This occurs simply because the stress hormone, cortisol, is made from cholesterol. Therefore, when stress levels are high the liver manufactures more cholesterol so it can be used to make cortisol.
There are some very simple ways to lower stress and therefore, lower cholesterol naturally. They are: regular exercise, relaxation techniques, meditation and taking stress-relieving herbs like, BCN's Rhodiola.
So there you have it! 7 simple steps to help you lower cholesterol naturally without resorting to medication. Use them all for at least 4 weeks and then have your cholesterol levels re-checked. You are sure to impress your doctor!
For more information about how to lower cholesterol naturally, please read: Crunch Cholesterol: Safe, Natural Secrets For High Cholesterol
Click here to go to
Supplement Articles from How to Lower Cholesterol Naturally
Click here to go to the
Quick Weight Loss Principles Home Page
Please Add Your Comments Here!
Thank you for taking the time to comment on this article.
Please give your feedback a title:
Enter your comments in the box below: [ ? ]
Close Help
Enter your comments/ feedback here.
Upload 1-4 Pictures or Graphics (optional)[ ? ]
Close Help
Do you have a picture to add? Great! Click the button and find it on your computer. Then select it.
Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional)
Click here to upload more images (optional)
Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional)
Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional)
Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional)
Author Information (optional)
To receive credit as the author, enter your information below.
Your Name
(first or full name)
Your Location
(e.g., City, State, Country)
Submit Your Contribution
Check box to agree to these submission guidelines.
I am at least 16 years of age.
I understand and accept the privacy policy.
I understand that you will display my submission on your website.
(You can preview and edit on the next page)
Recommended Reading
Cruch Cholesterol:
Safe, Natural Secrets
For High Cholesterol
Recommended Product
Get Your Free Copy
Subscribers to the
Quick Weight Loss E-Zine
get a FREE copy of my 'Secrets of Weight Loss' Special Report (Valued at $27).
Complete the box below to get your copy instantly!
Email
Name
Then
Don't worry, your e-mail address is totally secure.
I will only send you the
Quick Weight Loss E-zine.
Home Quick Weight Loss Blog
Weight Loss Articles
General Articles Nutrition Articles Exercise Articles Supplement Articles
Weight Loss Info
Quick Weight Loss Tips Quick Weight Loss Diet Boost Your Metabolism Weight Loss Programs Food Tips Workout Routines Muscle Building Tips Diabetes & Weight Loss Thyroid & Weight Loss Weight Loss For Seniors Health Facts Your Weight Loss Tips Question & Answers
[?] Subscribe To This Site
|Homepage |Contact |Disclaimer |Privacy Policy |Google|
Copyright© Quick Weight Loss Principles 2009-2017.