Mosquitoes & Hurricanes | Zika Virus | CDC
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People
Search
×
Submit
For a full list of topics: A-Z Index
Zika Virus
Section Navigation
home4 TP Docs Home
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Syndicate
Mosquitoes & Hurricanes
Español (Spanish)
Minus
Related Pages
What You Need to Know
Adult mosquitoes do not generally survive high winds during a hurricane.
Immediately following a hurricane, flooding occurs. Mosquito eggs laid in the soil by floodwater mosquitoes during previous floods hatch. This results in very large populations of floodwater mosquitoes. Most of these mosquitoes are considered nuisance mosquitoes.
In general, nuisance mosquitoes do not spread viruses that make people sick. The types of mosquitoes that can spread viruses may increase 2 weeks to 2 months after a hurricane, especially in areas that did not flood but received more rainfall than usual.
In areas with Aedes aegypti mosquitoes and local spread of Zika, chikungunya, or dengue, increased rainfall may result in increased hatching of Ae. aegypti eggs from water-holding containers. People may be at more risk of getting infected with these viruses, and they should take steps to protect themselves from mosquito bites.
Because people spend more time outside cleaning up after a hurricane or flood, they are more likely to be bitten by nuisance mosquitoes.
Large numbers of nuisance mosquitoes can affect recovery efforts. For this reason, local or state mosquito control experts will often take steps to control these mosquitoes.
Flooding caused by hurricanes can be severe, and an increase in mosquito populations is expected in the weeks after flooding. An increase in the number of people getting sick from diseases spread by mosquitoes is not expected after flooding.
CDC works closely with state and local health officials to monitor the flooding situation.
Protect Yourself and Your Family from Mosquito Bites
Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants.
Use Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-registered insect repellents with one of the following active ingredients: DEET, picaridin, IR3535, oil of lemon eucalyptus, para-menthane-diol, or 2-undecanone.
See EPA’s search tool hereExternal.
Always follow the product label instructions.
Reapply insect repellent as directed.
Do not spray repellent on the skin under clothing.
If you are also using sunscreen, apply sunscreen first and insect repellent second.
Prevent mosquito bites
Take Steps to Control Mosquitoes Inside and Outside Your Home
After a hurricane or flood, the health department or mosquito control district will often take steps to reduce the mosquito population.
Residents can take steps to help control mosquitoes in and around their homes to prevent mosquito bites.
Remove standing water where mosquitoes could lay eggs. Once a week, empty and scrub, turn over, cover, or throw out any items that hold water like tires, buckets, planters, toys, pools, birdbaths, flowerpot saucers, or trash containers. Mosquitoes lay eggs near water.
Keep mosquitoes outside
Page last reviewed: September 17, 2018
Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Vector-Borne Diseases (DVBD)
home Zika Virus Home
About Zika expand
Overview
What You Need to Know
Questions About Zika
Prevention and Transmission expand
Transmission Methods
Protect Yourself & Others expand
Build a Zika Prevention Kit
Prevent Mosquito Bites expand
Controlling Mosquitoes at Home
Sexual Transmission and Prevention
Plan for Travel
Zika & Blood Transfusion
Zika & Animals
Symptoms, Testing, & Treatment expand
Symptoms
Testing for Zika
Treatment
Zika in the US expand
Blood and Tissue Collection Community
Statistics and Maps expand
2019 Case Counts
2018 Case Counts
2017 Case Counts
2016 Case Counts
2015 Case Counts
Mosquito Control expand
Integrated Mosquito Management
Zika Vector Control in the Continental US
Potential Range in US
For Professionals expand
Surveillance & Control
Information on Aerial Spraying
Insecticide Resistance expand
Testing in Puerto Rico
Mosquitoes & Hurricanes
Resources
Health Effects & Risks expand
Microcephaly & Other Birth Defects
Guillain-Barré Syndrome
Pregnancy
Information for Specific Groups expand
State & Local Health Departments expand
Epidemiologic Investigation Toolkit
Zika Action Day Toolkit
Men
Parents
Blood & Tissue Collection Centers
Schools
Community Partners
For Healthcare Providers expand
Clinical Evaluation & Disease
Sexual Transmission
Testing for Zika expand
Testing Guidance
Test Specimens – At Time of Birth
Diagnostic Tests
Laboratory Guidance
Infection Control expand
Healthcare Exposure to Zika and Infection Control
Interim Guidance for Managing Occupational Exposures to Zika Virus for Healthcare Personnel
Training
For Laboratories expand
Lab Guidance
Lab Safety
Diagnostic Tests
Test Specimens – Body Fluids
Test Specimens – Tissues
Training
Resources & Publications
Communication Resources expand
Zika Communication Toolkits
Video Resources
Print Resources
Infographics
Zika Widgets
Social_govd
govD
Get Email Updates
To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:
Email Address
What's this?
Submit
CONTACT CDC-INFO
Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY: 888-232-6348
Email CDC-INFO
CDC INFORMATION
About CDC
Jobs
Funding
Policies
File Viewers & Players
Privacy
FOIA
No Fear Act
OIG
Nondiscrimination
Accessibility
CONNECT WITH CDC
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram
Syndicate
CDC TV
RSS
Email
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
USA.gov
CDC Website Exit Disclaimer
Facebook
Twitter
Email
file_external
Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy
Close
Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
Cancel
Continue