6 Healthy Juicing Recipes for High Cholesterol
Skip to content
Main Menu
Juicing 101
Juicers
Blenders
Recipes
Health Topics
About
Contact
6 Juicing Recipes for High Cholesterol
By Garrick Dee / Updated on: November 2, 2018
Share
Tweet
Pin
706shares
Having high cholesterol has been a part of my life for around 7 years right now so this subject is close to my heart.
I was first diagnosed around 2006 or 2007 and since then I’ve been on a Crestor medication (on and off).
And anybody who’s taken these types of medication will tell you it’s not good for the liver. So I’m looking for recipes to lessen my dependence on this drug.
If you’ve read my first juicing journal, you’ve probably know why I started juicing, yup high cholesterol.
So far I’ve tried around 6 recipes and counting, I’ll share them with you here.
Before I start, let’s talk a little bit about cholesterol, its harmful effects to our body and why you shouldn’t neglect this condition.
What is Cholesterol?
Cholesterol is actually a lipid or fat produced by the liver, around 1,000 milligrams per day to be exact.
In fact cholesterol is vital to our body’s function. One of those functions is the production of sex hormones. I bet you didn’t know that.
According to Harvard.edu, cholesterol has 3 main functions:
Aids in producing the outer coating of cells
Helps in the digestion of food in our intestine
Helps in the production of hormones and Vitamin D which produces sex hormones in men and women
If you look at it, cholesterol isn’t bad. It is I should say vital for our bodies function but it becomes bad if there is too much of it.
Not all cholesterol is bad
There are actually two types –the good cholesterol or HDL (high-density lipoproteins) cholesterol and bad cholesterol or LDL (low-density lipoproteins).
HDL is what picks up bad cholesterol from the blood vessel and takes it to the liver where it is processed and disposed out of our system.
LDL is the cholesterol we want to get rid of because too much of it clogs up the blood vessels and arteries that can lead to cardiac arrest.
Experts say that even though we don’t eat another French fry, our liver would still produce enough cholesterol for our body to function properly.
Lifestyle is a huge factor
The problem of high cholesterol lies in our lifestyle, because of the rise of fast food and a fast-paced lifestyle; we eat more and more McDonalds than a homemade meal.
If you’ve watch the documentary Super-Size Me, it is like a death sentence.
On its own bad cholesterol cannot leave the blood vessel. It needs a protein that will take it from the blood vessel back to the liver and out of our system.
This is where HDL (high-density lipoproteins) or good cholesterol comes in. This is the type of cholesterol that we need to remove bad cholesterol from our system.
Why you should NOT ignore high cholesterol?
High cholesterol is the main culprit to diseases such as stroke, heart attack, atherosclerosis (or narrowing of the arteries) and angina.
Foods that help lower high cholesterol
Almost all fruit and vegetables will help lower down bad cholesterol levels because they contain soluble fiber that absorb dietary cholesterol.
Green leafy vegetables are rich in vitamin B12 help improve circulation.
Vitamin B12 helps
Foods rich in Niacin or B3 such as avocados, kale, mushroom, asparagus, peas, sweet potato, broccoli, carrots and green pepper will help decrease cholesterol production in our system. And at the same time flush out bad cholesterol according to the World’s Healthiest Food website.
Vitamin E is one of the essentials in fighting LDL as it helps prevent oxidation of cholesterol or in simple terms it prevents cholesterol from clogging the arteries. I
It is abundant in vegetables such as spinach, squash, chard, spirulina and fruits such as blueberries, blackberries, boysenberries, guava, kiwi, mango, nectarine, peaches, and papaya.
Don’t forget Vitamin C
Vitamin C that also helps prevent oxidation of bad cholesterol can be found in fruits such as mangoes, passion fruit, pineapple, strawberry, kiwi and guava. And vegetables such as kale, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, Bok Choi, Swiss chard and butternut squash.
Just for your reference, here are foods that can help lower bad cholesterol.
How can you lower cholesterol levels?
It takes self-discipline and a total change of your lifestyle to lower your cholesterol levels and it starts with what you put in your body:
Avoid saturated fat and trans-fat which means no fast food and no fried food in your diet.
Eating foods high in insoluble fiber such as whole oats, oatmeal, cereal, couscous, brown rice, celery, broccoli, onions, cabbage, dark leafy greens, and green beans will help flush out the bad stuff out of your gut. Experts at Harvard recommend that you get at least 20 to 35 grams per day.
Eat more fresh fruits and vegetables in your diet. This is a no-brainer, fruit and vegetables contain anti-oxidants that help neutralize the spread of free radicals in our system and prevent the oxidation of cholesterol (or clogging).
The next step is to increase your activity level and exercise more. According to WebMB, studies show that regular exercise help stimulate enzymes that move LDL (or bad cholesterol) from the blood vessels to the liver.
You’ll need 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity per day
The American Heart Association recommends between 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity a day. Aim for at least a moderate intensity activity like jogging, swimming, walking or biking.
While regular exercise does not guarantee to lower cholesterol because of factors out of our control like genetics, heredity and age, it can help improve overall health and reduce risk for other diseases like cancer, diabetes, stroke and obesity.
Combine exercise and the right diet
Remember to regularly exercise and eat the right food that means more fruits and vegetables, fish, legumes, oats, fat-free dairy, and omega-3 rich eggs.
Be careful when using oils – use canola, olive or grape seed oils and skip the saturated stuff because it’s bad for you.
Some tips
Rika Susan shares these 10 simple tips on how to lower your cholesterol minus the medication.
If you’re under medication, ask the physician about the lowest dosage you can take so your liver won’t take a pounding and have a regular blood test to monitor cholesterol levels.
The Recipes
I got these recipes from juicing and health blogs around the web and I’ve TRIED every one of these recipes to give you a heads up on the flavour.
This is very important, especially to people starting out because the last thing I want to do is recommend something that tastes so bad it’ll discourage you. Juicing need not be a chore!
The recipe’s here is only meant to be a guide, don’t be afraid to experiment with the amount of fruit or vegetable you’ll put it. Of course the more vegetable you put the better.
Recipe 1
2 carrots
two celery ribs
2 green apples
This recipe will only yield around 375ml (a little more than a can of coke) of juice so just add a bit more if you’re juicing for 2 like I did.
You can add a watery vegetable like cucumber to dilute it further and yield more juice.
I found this recipe from Sara Ding’s blog juicing-for-health and it was sweet with a tiny bit of celery bitterness but not too much.
Important notes on preparation:
I chopped the celery around ½” to ¾” long so it does not clog the pulp ejector (if you’re using a juicer like the Omega VRT).
Carrots are chopped into thinner pieces so that it’ll fit the opening.
I also chopped the green apple into small enough pieces that’ll fit in the opening. I removed the seeds and stem (just a personal preference).
Recipe 2
2 green apples
3 celery ribs
2 capsicums
1 slice lemon (unpeeled)
This is similar to recipe 1 the difference is that this recipe used a slice of lemon and capsicum instead of carrots that completely changes the flavour. I added 3 celery ribs just to experiment, in Sara Ding’s original recipe it only called for 2.
Expect a lemony flavour with this one even though it has only one slice in it. I tried peeling the skin but I had a hard time so I just included it. It shouldn’t affect the flavour too much – with or without the peel.
If you can’t find any capsicums or if it’s too expensive, try to use bell pepper it’ll yield less juice (around 400ml) and look different but it’ll taste the same.
Recipe 3
1/3 bag of spinach (around a handful)
1/2 bunch of parsley
4 carrots
1/2″ ginger root
1 garlic clove
1 apple
I found this recipe in Dr. Stephen Sinatra’s blog and he recommends that you take this every day. He claimed that this recipe helped lower down the cholesterol level of one person from 300mg/DL to 190mg/Dl just by taking this over a 4-week period without any medication, pretty amazing.
Any concoction that has ginger will have a kick, and this is not exception. The spiciness of this drink may not be for everyone, you could add a bit more apple to sweeten it a little bit.
Important notes on preparation:
I chopped the parsley, spinach, ginger into shorter bits of around ½” to ¾” so that it will not clog the pulp ejector (do this if you’re using a slow juicer)
I put in the garlic whole (peeled of course)
Recipe 4
3 apples
4 celery ribs
1/4 thumb ginger
1/2 lemon (with skin)
1 orange (peeled)
a few handfuls of spinach
The spinach, I just played by ear, you noticed in the photo that I’ve included the stems. You could also buy organic and only juice the leaves but the stems also provide added nutritional value and more juice. This recipe will yield roughly 790ml, around 2 big cups.
Update (July 2, 2014) – I’ve tried pre-washed organic spinach it didn’t come out well, it was thick, slimy, not very palatable for me. If you’re buying something that’s pre-washed go for the baby spinach instead, it’ll taste better.
It tasted a bit sweet with a hint of lemon sourness and because it has ginger, it has a bit of kick in it.
The flavour was pleasant if you ask me – a great natural energy drink to start your day off with, particularly if you didn’t get enough sleep which I didn’t get before making this drink.
Recipe 5
4 carrots (peeled)
3 ribs celery
4 broccoli heads (or 1 broccoli stem)
1 cucumber
one green apple
1 romaine lettuce (or Kale leaf)
1 lime (peeled)
I got this recipe from Juice Lady Cherie and it will yield roughly 625ml of juice.
This tasted like a lot like recipe 4 because it used 1 green apple and 1 lime, a bit sour and sweet. If you’re concerned with fructose then use lemon instead because it very low fructose and it masks the bitterness dark green greens have.
Recipe 6
3 apples
2 celery ribs
1 cucumber
a thumb ginger
1 lime
This will yield roughly 410ml which should be good for 2 people, just double the ingredients if you feel it’s not enough.
I found this recipe in JuiceRecipes.com, if you’re looking for condition-specific recipes. Visit their site as well as it contains tons of free recipes like this one. The ginger and lime will give you something sweet with a kick. You’ll barely taste the bitterness of the celery.
Bon Appétit
If you have any recipes to share, please share it below, I’d love to hear from you.
This post is shared on: Natural Living Mondays, Urban’s Natural’s Healthy, Happy, Green & Natural Blog Hop Party #27, The Sunday Showcase – By Stephanie Lynn, Tutorials and Tips Link Party, Share it link party #118, Fluster’s #CreativeMuster Linky Party #75
You may also like:
Lower Your Cholesterol At Home With These 3 Juicy Recipes!
How to Lower High Cholesterol Naturally: Is It…
Cholesterol Fighting Foods: 15 Foods That Lower Bad…
8 Health Benefits of Black Garlic: Number 3 Is Amazing!
20 thoughts on “6 Juicing Recipes for High Cholesterol”
Aysha Mo
April 7, 2014 at 4:23 pm
Thanks for this informative piece! I’m going to send my mom, she has high cholesterol.
Reply
Garrick Dee
April 8, 2014 at 2:56 am
Aysha,
Your welcome and thank you for dropping by. I’ve been battling it for over 7 years now and only recently have I been taking it seriously. How high is her cholesterol level? If you don’t mind me asking. Juicing and drinking lots of water has been good for me so far, I’ve been able to drop my blood sugar level around 5 points and it is below 90 right now.
Let me know the results when she does another test.
All the best,
Garrick
Reply
Rika Susan
May 25, 2014 at 8:49 am
Super article you’ve put together, Garrick! Thanks for the mention! Appreciate it. Yes there is a lot we can do with juicing to help control cholesterol. Love the recipes you are giving here. Have shared on Facebook and Twitter.
Reply
Garrick Dee
May 25, 2014 at 12:11 pm
Susan,
You are welcome, I often visit your sites for nuggets of info about juicing and health. Appreciate you sharing your expertise. :) keep up the good work
Reply
Diatta @ Femme Fitale Fit Club
May 28, 2014 at 8:55 am
These juices sound delicious! I plan to try them.
Reply
Garrick Dee
May 28, 2014 at 9:01 am
Hi Diatta,
Great to see you here. Let me know how it goes.
Reply
Deborah Davis
June 3, 2014 at 9:56 pm
Hi Garrick,
This is such an important post. So many friends and family members of mine have high cholesterol levels. I am definitely going to share this article with them as well as my social media network. Thank you so much for sharing these helpful cholesterol-lowering juice recipes and lifestyle tips with us at the Healthy, Happy, Green and Natural Party Blog Hop!
Reply
Karren Haller
June 9, 2014 at 10:41 pm
Hi there, stopping by a little late, but wanted to let you know that I pinned your post to our Weekends Party Board and Healthy Recipes Group Party Board and a moment ago.
I would like to invite you back for Mondays Reflection to link new posts.
Enjoy your day!!
Reply
Sean Carey
June 13, 2014 at 5:46 pm
Hey Garrick,
Great article and great juice recipes for high cholesterol! Great extra tips such as regular exercise and eating fruits and veggies more regularly. Even though it is a no-brainer to many of us, there are many people who just need to hear it confirmed so that they have more motivation to do so. I just found this article today and will be sharing it all around on all of my social networks. Got to get the word out there. Good stuff!
Reply
Garrick Dee
June 17, 2014 at 6:31 am
Sean,
Thanks for dropping by.
Yes, this topic is very close to my heart because I’ve been dealing with this for almost a decade and what I’ve learned that the food you put in your body plays a biggest part on whether or not you’ll successfully lower your bad cholesterol. Of course exercise plays a part as well as the juice you drink but it all boils down in totally changing your diet and being disciplined enough to follow through.
Lastly, thank you for spreading the word, I definitely appreciate it.
Reply
limary
February 18, 2015 at 4:49 pm
Hi Garrick:
How many glass of juice you recommend to lower or keep control of our cholesterol?
Reply
Garrick Dee
February 21, 2015 at 2:34 am
Hi Limary,
At least one to two glasses per day.
Reply
Gricelda
July 18, 2015 at 6:33 pm
I started making the juices on your article for my husband who comes from a long line of high cholesterol. within the first week he noticed he wasn’t getting as many headaches, witch was a huge concern for us. I’m not sure if high cholesterol causes headaches, but he’s loving the change. We looks forward to our juice every morning.
Reply
Garrick Dee
July 19, 2015 at 8:35 am
I didn’t suffer from headaches even when my cholesterol was at its highest level, maybe it’s a symptom of another ailment? Have you checked with your doctor?
Reply
tricel
August 26, 2015 at 1:03 pm
hi garric,
what was your cholesterol level before and after juicing? how long did you juice?
so one glass a day is enough? Can i blanch the veggies to kill bacteria?
Reply
Garrick Dee
August 26, 2015 at 2:41 pm
It went as high as 260+ then down to 160+ at one point then it hovers around 190+ right now. Remember that juicing is not a magic pill that will miraculously cure high cholesterol, diet plays a huge part. If I don’t watch what I eat, my cholesterol levels can easily go up so I have to watch what I eat – particularly sugar and other unhealthy foods.
Reply
Angelo
November 7, 2016 at 11:21 pm
Thank you for sharing these juicing recipes. I’ve just started into juicing and like to try Recipe #3 of Dr. Stephen Sinatra. I would like my juicing regimen to include carrots so that I can get essential minerals including calcium and potassium which help boost healthy digestive tract.
Reply
Marisol
November 21, 2016 at 3:41 pm
Green Juice recommended by a nutritionist for lowering cholesterol
2 green apples
1 cucumber
1 carrot
1 lemon
3 celery sticks
2 kale
1″ piece of Ginger
handful of spinach
This makes a large serving or two smaller servings
I usually make this and serve my husband and I.
Reply
Li Lian
April 14, 2017 at 4:52 pm
Hi Garrick,
Thanks for the recipes! I will definitely try these juices!
I have two questions:
1. Is it really necessary to get a slow juicer or just abnormal juicer will do? I have a normal one.
2. I have both high cholesterol and high sugar. Will these juices also help for high sugar? I am thinking if I can just make one cup to lower cholesterol and sugar. Or I should take a cup for lowering cholesterol? And another to lower sugar?
Thank you so much!
Li Lian
Reply
Joan
June 5, 2018 at 9:14 am
Thank you for this article! Will start juicing for my husband who has high lipid levels. Is there a ‘best’ time for drinking raw juice? Morning? Or before/after meal?
Thanks,
Joan
Reply
Leave a Comment Cancel Reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Type here..
Name*
Email*
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Related Posts
3 Juicing Recipes for Diabetics that will Actually Lower Your Blood Glucose Level
Guilt-Free Green Strawberry Juice
Oh My, It’s KALE-licious! (Kale Juice Recipes!)
The BEET is On!
Juicing Journal – The First 10 Days
Important Disclaimer: The information contained on Juicing with G is intended for informational and educational purposes only. Any statements made on this website have not been evaluated by the FDA and any information or products discussed are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat or prevent any disease or illness. Please consult a healthcare practitioner before making changes to your diet or taking supplements that may interfere with medications.
We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
Copyright © 2019 Juicing with G - Recipes, Juicer Reviews, Interviews and Much More
706shares
Scroll to Top