Omega 3 Fish Oil For A Healthier Heart | Medicines Naturally
Medicines Naturally
Natural Health Solutions For Living Naturally
Facebook
Google+
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
Menu
Home
About
Blog
A-Z Health
Close
Categories
ADHD
Allergies
Anti-Aging
Anxiety and Depression
Arthritis
Asthma & Respiratory
Bone Health
Cholesterol
Colds, Flu, Immunity
Detox & Cleansing
Diabetes & Blood Sugar
Diets & Weight Loss
Digestive Support
Headaches
Hemorrhoids & Constipation
Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS)
Nerves & Muscles
Personal Care
Skin & Hair Care
Sleep Problems
Womens Health
Yeast Infections
Close
ADHD
Asthma
Natural Medicines
Close
Alternative Medicines
Herbal Medicines
Homeopathy
Homeopathic Natural Remedies
Let Food Be Thy Medicine-Hippocrates
Vitamins & Natural Supplements
Close
Alternative Therapies
Close
Alternative Therapies
Aromatherapy & Essential Oils
Massage Therapy
Meditation Techniques
Reiki Healing Energy
Yoga – Mind & Body
Close
You are here: Home / Cholesterol / Omega 3 Fish Oil For A Healthier Heart
Omega 3 Fish Oil For A Healthier Heart
By Jennifer Johnson Leave a Comment
Article Table of Contents
1 Omega-3 Fish Oil for the Heart
2 Getting The Right Amount of Omega 3’s
3 The Best Sources of Omega-3 Fatty Acids
4 Side-Effects of Omega-3 Fish Oil
Omega-3 Fish Oil for the Heart
Research reveals that taking fish oil supplements can greatly impact heart health. Omega 3 helps improve an individual’s blood pressure, cholesterol and blood flow. It is also known to be helpful in promoting a healthy heart beat, in reducing blood clots, in controlling the growth of atherosclerotic plaque and in balancing triglyceride levels. Many clinical studies also revealed that omega-3 fatty acids can reduce one’s risk of experiencing repeat episodes of coronary heart disease.
Omega-3 fish oil is a rich contributor of EPA and DHA which can help reduce triglyceride levels and spare an individual from abnormal heart rhythms and heart attack.
Getting The Right Amount of Omega 3’s
You can include 2-3 servings of fish in your diet (that contains omega 3) on a weekly basis, as advised by The Heart Foundation. If you find it hard to include fish in your diet for some reason, you can just opt to take fish oil supplements daily.
Normally, the recommended dose would be 500mg of fish oil supplements in a day which also means 500 mg of DHA and EPA. For those who have been diagnosed with any heart problems, they may take higher amounts of fish oil depending on the advice given by their health care provider.
The Best Sources of Omega-3 Fatty Acids
Good sources of omega 3 fatty acids may include sardines, albacore tuna, trout, herring, salmon and mackerel. However, avoid eating swordfish, tile shark, king mackerel and any other fishes that may contain mercury and other contaminants. It is also advised to put more importance on how fish is being cooked and prepared. Fried fish and any other fish recipes being offered in fast food restaurants may no longer contain the same benefits.
It is better to opt for broiled or baked fish. Furthermore, wild-caught fish are better sources of omega-3 fatty acids compared to farm-caught fish which may only provide harmful effects due to the pesticides, antibiotics and other chemicals being used by people in raising these fish. Nutritionists highly recommend that we should get our supply of omega-3 fatty acids from fish because fish is also a good source of some other important nutrients, before turning to fish oil supplements.
Side-Effects of Omega-3 Fish Oil
If you decide to take omega 3 fish oil supplements, limit your intake up to 3 grams only. Taking more than what is prescribed may increase your risks of suffering from bleeding. Some people do experience some side effects when taking fish oil supplements such as stomach upset, loose stools, fishy breath and nausea.
Affiliate Disclosure
My website contains affiliate links, which means if you purchase any products mentioned in my articles, I may receive a commission. If you do, thank you!
Related Articles
Fight Age Related Diseases and Extend Your Life
Foods For Vitamin and Mineral Deficiencies
Natural Remedies for Varicose Veins
Relieve Asthma Attacks and Increase Lung Capacity
How To Prevent A Yeast Infection?
Filed Under: Cholesterol Tagged With: Blood Pressure, Cholesterol Supplements, Fish Oil Supplements, Heart Disease, Infographics, Omega 3
About Jennifer Johnson
I am interested in natural health solutions and my love for natural remedies has become a passion. If any of my family or friends has a health problem, I like to research it and write what I find!
Follow me: Twitter · Facebook · G+ Health Solutions · Pinterest · LinkedIn
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Natural Health Solutions
Hi, I'm Jennifer Johnson and I love natural health solutions. I've used natural remedies for years and love sharing what I find. I hope you find some of them useful! Jennifer Johnson
Facebook
Google+
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
Natural Remedy Discounts!
Save 15% Off All Orders
30% Off Orders Over $100 Plus Free Shipping
25% Off Orders Over $80 Plus Free Shipping
20% Off Orders Over $60 Plus Free Shipping
Affiliate Disclosure
I am an affiliate for products displayed on my website. I may earn a commission if you make a purchase through my link.
Latest Articles
Getting Started with Meditation – Free Journal & Workbook
What is Meditation? Meditation is the practice of reaching a heightened level of awareness. If you … [Read More...] about Getting Started with Meditation – Free Journal & Workbook
Natural Arthritis Relief – Can Natural Supplements Help?
If you suffer with arthritis and are sick of trying over-the-counter pain medications or other … [Read More...] about Natural Arthritis Relief – Can Natural Supplements Help?
ADHD – Effects of Foods and Herbs
There are many people who feel that following an ADHD diet, such as eliminating specific substances … [Read More...] about ADHD – Effects of Foods and Herbs
Search Here…
Natural Remedies
ADHD Natural Remedy
Allergy Symtom Relief
Asthma Natural Remedy
Arthitis Pain Relief Remedy
Yeast Infection (Candida) Remedy
Health & Wellness Categories
Health & Wellness Categories Select Category ADHD ADHD Remedy Allergies Alternative Medicines Alternative Therapies Anti-Aging Anxiety and Depression Aromatherapy & Essential Oils Arthritis Asthma & Respiratory Asthma & Respiratory Remedy Blood Sugar & Diabetes Bone Health BV Remedy Cholesterol Colds, Flu, Immunity Detox & Cleansing Diets & Weight Loss Digestive Support Featured Health & Wellness Headaches Hemorrhoids & Constipation Herbal Medicine Homeopathic Remedies Homeopathy Irritable Bowel Syndrome Let Food Be Thy Medicine Massage Therapy Meditation Nerves & Muscles Personal Care Reiki Skin & Hair Care Sleep Problems Vitamins & Supplements Womens Health Yeast Infections Yoga
Natural Cholesterol Supplement
Medicines Naturally
Disclaimer & Disclosure
Legal Notices
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Facebook
Google+
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
Homeopathic Remedies
ADHD Natural Remedy
Allergy Symtom Relief
Asthma Natural Remedy
Arthitis Pain Relief Remedy
Yeast Infection (Candida) Remedy
Popular Supplements
Natural Remedies for Blood Sugar
Natural Remedies for Cholesterol
Dopamine Supplements
Serotonin Supplements
Search Website
Latest Articles
Getting Started with Meditation – Free Journal & Workbook
Natural Arthritis Relief – Can Natural Supplements Help?
ADHD – Effects of Foods and Herbs
Restless Leg Syndrome – Acupuncture and Other Treatments
Copyright © 2019 · Medicines Naturally
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Disclaimer | Legal Notices | Contact | Jennifer G+ | Natural Health Solutions
General Data Protection & Privacy Policy - This website uses cookies, forms, tracking, and marketing tools to process data from our visitors. The collected information is stored securely (often outside EU - and possibly including identifiable information). By using this website you consent to the collection and use of such information as detailed in our Privacy Policy here.
Information provided in this website is not intended to be medical or professional advice. I hope you enjoy my website as much as I do sharing my own thoughts!
I am also an affiliate for products mentioned and displayed, and will earn a commission if a purchase is made.