Search For Morphine Addiction Treatment - AmO: Life Beauty Without Limits...
Home
AmO Images
AmO Quotes
Links
Contact Us
Advertise
Categories
Home
Life Hacks
Inspiration
Love Is All Around
Human World
Art and Entertainment
Around the World
Interesting Events
AmO Reviews
Odds and Ends
Healthy Lifestyle
You Are Beautiful
Fashion Lovers
Writing Skills
Business & Trading
Popular Articles
Top 20 Most Famous Love Stories in History and Literature
Use Words Powerfully - 101 Positively Powerful Words
Top 20 Most Romantic Movies Ever!
20 Crazy Things We All Do
Great People Sleep Less?
33 Interesting Facts about Famous People
Some of the Funniest Exam Answers: Stuff You Wish You Could Have Written
Top 50 Most Beautiful Women in Hollywood
10 Amazing Facts about Love
The World’s Most Mysterious Places: Can We Explain Everything?
Search For Morphine Addiction Treatment
Millions of Americans struggle with addiction to drugs and alcohol, as the opioid epidemic continues to spread throughout the nation. Morphine is among the most notorious opiates in terms of risk of abuse, side effects and long-term health risks. Substance abuse permeates all communities regardless of demographics and socioeconomics.
Despite this fact, many people who struggle with morphine addiction are unable or unwilling to seek treatment due to the stigma associated with mental health and substance abuse. The purpose of this article is to outline the scope of addiction throughout the United States and to provide resources to help those struggling with morphine addiction to find recovery resources.
Morphine and the opioid epidemic
The opioid epidemic has reached a crisis level in the United States, to the point where paramedics and emergency responders have to keep a supply of Narcan ready to treat the opioid overdoses which occur on a daily basis. Many Americans struggle with addiction to painkillers including morphine, oxycontin and fentanyl.
Morphine is particularly dangerous due to the way it suppresses the nervous system. As a result, it is easy to accidentally overdose on morphine; in particular when administered in high doses to users who have developed a tolerance to the drug over time. Other side effects of long-term morphine use include confusion, depression, hallucinations, nausea, vomiting and coma.
Unfortunately, due to the addictive nature of opiates including morphine, many Americans are dependent on prescription painkillers and suffer the severe symptoms of withdrawal without a steady stream of medication. This further fuels the cycle of prescription drug abuse, with many prescribers and pharmacists greatly reducing the dispersal of painkillers. As a result, people struggling with addiction are more likely to turn to illegal narcotics such as heroin; unregulated and unsafe, and often laced with powerful additives such as Fentanyl, thus increasing the number of deaths due to accidental overdose.
A necessary drug
Morphine is used to treat chronic, acute pain. It is sometimes administered intravenously in hospitals; it is also available in pill form. For patients suffering with terminal diseases and chronic pain, morphine is a necessary medication that increases comfort and quality of life. Even in such cases, prescribers are cautious with morphine, given the high risk of abuse and dangerous nature of opiates. Often, prescriptions are given for one-week quantities of the medication at a time.
Treatment
Morphine addiction is considered difficult to treat; in particular due to the severe physical discomfort associated with withdrawal. Many patients report flu-like symptoms when withdrawing from morphine, including fever, chills, body aches, muscle spasms, cold sweats and severe gastrointestinal upset. The most dangerous approach to morphine withdrawal is going cold turkey, with the sudden cessation of drug use. Patients who have attempted to go cold turkey often require urgent care, suffering severe symptoms, including heart palpitations and seizures. A medically-supervised detox is considered to be the safest approach, wherein the use of morphine is gradually tapered off, thus decreasing the severity of the symptoms of withdrawal. Behavioural therapy and counselling is recommended throughout detox and recovery to help patients reach and maintain sobriety.
< Prev
Next >
[ Back ]
Enter your search terms
Web amolife.com
Submit search form
Quotation
"Liberty is obedience to the law which one has laid down for oneself."
Jean-Jacques Rousseau
AmO Images
A Little Rain
Live in the "Now"
There is no Wealth but Life!
Copyright 2019 AmO: Life Beauty Without Limits....