Hepatitis B Transmission
Positive Dating
Top Stories
Transmission Links
Symptoms
Treatment
Browse by Condition
HIV/AIDS
Genital Herpes
Hepatitis B
HPV
Chlamydia
Gonorrhea
Trichomoniasis
Syphillis
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease
Browse by Symptom(s)
Abdominal Pain
Bleeding during Intercourse
Blisters
Dark Urine
Diarrhea
Discharge
Fatigue
Fever
Flaky Skin
Flu-like Symptoms
Frequent Urination
Genital Itching/Discomfort
Genital Swelling
Genital Warts
Headaches
More...
Weekly Newsletter
Stay Informed, Stay in Touch, Get Involved.
Hepatitis B Transmission
Sign up for Our Newsletter
Home
STD Health
Genital Herpes
Symptoms
Research
Testing
Treatment
Pictures
Dating
Lifestyle
Pregnancy
Transmission
HIV/AIDS
Support
Symptoms
Treatments
Lifestyle
Transmission
Research
Pregnancy
Dating
Hepatitis B
Symptoms
Testing
Treatments
Transmission
Lifestyle
Dating
Pregnancy
Research
Common STDs
Chlamydia
HPV
Gonorrhea
Syphilis
Trichomoniasis
All Symptoms
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
News
Dating with Genital Herpes
Foursquare releases STD Test Badge
Genital Herpes News
Genital Herpes: The Truth Revealed
Hepatitis News
HIV/AIDS News
HPV Facts
I’ve Got a Rash: My Genital Herpes Scare
inSpot
Oral Cancers Linked to HPV On the Rise
Practice like a Porn Star to Prevent STDs
STD Research
STD Statistics
STD Support
Hepatitis B (HBV) is transmitted via bodily fluids. Individuals become infected once an infected person’s bodily fluids, including, blood, semen, vaginal secretions or saliva enter their body. Sharing toothbrushes or nail clippers, for instance, can increase the chance of acquiring the infection. HBV is not spread through casual contact, such as hugging or shaking hands. Also, the virus is not spread through sweat or tears. Individuals who are 18 years and younger, and adults who have an increased risk of developing HBV should be vaccinated.
Sexual transmission
Individuals who engage in unprotected sex, including vaginal anal or oral sex, with an infected partner may acquire hepatitis B. The infection may also be transmitted if sexual devices are shared and not sterilized or covered with a condom.
Needle sharing
HBV can be transmitted through needles and syringes that are contaminated with infected blood. Therefore, individuals who share intravenous (IV) drug paraphernalia have an increased risk of developing the infection.
Accidental needle sticks
Healthcare workers and anyone who comes into contact with human blood is at risk of acquiring HBV.
Pregnancy
Pregnant women who are infected with HBV can pass the virus to their babies. When the virus is transmitted from mother to fetus, it is called vertical transmission. Therefore, it is recommended that newborn babies of HBV positive mothers receive hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG), as well as the hepatitis vaccine, which includes a series of three injections. The vaccine will greatly reduce the baby’s risk of acquiring the virus.
Risk Factors
Individuals who have unprotected sex with more than one partner.
Individuals who have unprotected sex with someone who is infected with HBV.
Individuals who have a sexually transmitted disease, such as gonorrhea or chlamydia.
Individuals who share needles during intravenous (IV) drug use.
Individuals who share a household with someone who has a chronic HBV infection. Close contact with an infected individual increases the likelihood of acquiring the viral infection.
Individuals who have a job that exposes them to human blood.
Individuals who have received a blood transfusion or blood products before 1970. It was not until after 1970 that the blood supply was routinely tested for HBV. Today, the risk of contracting HBV from donated blood is low.
Individuals who receive hemodialysis for end-stage renal disease.
Individuals who travel to regions of the world that have high infection rates of HBV, such as sub-Saharan Africa, Southeast Asia, the Amazon Basin, the Pacific Islands and the Middle East.
Adolescents or young adults residing in a U.S. correctional facility.
Newborns whose mothers are infected with HBV.
Anyone can potentially become infected with HBV, even if they have no known risk factors for the disease.
Selected References
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Viral Hepatitis B. www.cdc.gov. Accessed March 29, 2009.
Hepatitis Foundation International. Caring for Your Liver. www.hepfi.org. Accessed March 29, 2009.
National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse (NDDIC). Viral Hepatitis: A Through E and Beyond. http://digestive.niddk.nih.gov. Accessed March 29, 2009.
Natural Standard: The Authority on Integrative Medicine. www.naturalstandard.com. Copyright © 2009. Accessed March 29, 2009.
World Health Organization (WHO). Hepatitis B. www.who.int. Accessed March 29, 2009.
The Hepatitis Information Network. www.hepnet.com. Accessed March 29, 2009.
Sitemap
STD Testing Centers
Confidentiality Guarantee
STD Research and Awareness
Diagnostic
Get Help
Partnerships
SafePositive.com
About SafePositive.com
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Partner with SafePositive.com
Copyright 2010
Safe Positive
All Rights Reserved
privacy policy
terms and conditions