Astigmatism – Business Babble
Business Babble
Business Babble
Skip to content
Search for:
Tag: Astigmatism
Posted on February 22, 2019 by admin
Common Myths about Cataracts
When it comes to taking care of your eyes as you age you will certainly receive a lot of information both accurate and inaccurate. Wading through the information received can be daunting. Cataracts are often a center of myths and tales associated with seniors and vision care. We have centered this installment around breaking the myths that surround the formation and surgical procedures associated with cataracts.
Cataracts are the leading cause of blindness throughout the world, more than glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, and macular degeneration collectively. They are more common in seniors than any other demographic. Estimates suggest fifty percent of Americans will have had cataracts by the time they are eighty years old. It is important that seniors have correct information, an understanding of their vision condition, and what options they have for correction.
The Myths and Truths of Cataracts
Myth #1: Cataracts Grow on The Eye
Truth: Cataracts have thought to be a growth on the eye however that is not the truth at all. Cataracts are a result of protein fibers that clump together and creating a clouding of the lens of the eye. The cloud causes light to be scattered or even blocked completely as it passes through the lens. This does not allow the retina to receive a clear image. Cataracts are caused by:
Overexposure to Ultraviolet Light
Eye Injury
Result of Diabetes
Myth #2: The Only Symptom of Cataracts Is Blurred Vision
Truth: Although blurred vision is the most common symptom individuals report when experiencing cataracts, it is not the only one. Other symptoms include:
Extreme Light Sensitivity
Changes in Vision Prescription
Double Vision
Changes in Perception of Colors
Night Vision Difficulty
Myth #3: Cataracts Are Preventable
Truth: Cataracts are not preventable. There are different strategies that can be taken to reduce the risk of developing cataracts or to slow the progression of the disease. These include:
Yearly Eye Exams
Healthy Diet Rich in Fruits and Veggies
Don’t Smoke
Avoid Excessive Alcohol Usage
Wear Sunglasses with UVA & UVB Protection
Myth #4: Cataract Surgery is Dangerous
Truth: Cataract is in fact not dangerous, it is actually one of the safest vision surgeries. With advancements in technology, individuals need minimal sedation and cataract surgery has a success rate of over ninety-five percent. Recovery from cataract surgery includes:
Refrain from Eye Rubbing
No Lifting of Heavy Objects
Avoid Driving
Myth #5: Cataracts Come Back
Truth: Once a cataract is removed from the lens through surgical means, it will not return. A “secondary” cataract may develop. This occurs when the membrane holding the foreign lens implant in place becomes cloudy. This is corrected with a simple, painless procedure called a YAG laser capsulotomy. An eye surgeon will create a small opening in the membrane to assist in restoring the sharpness in vision.
Rohr Eye & Laser Center offers the most advanced technology available to suit your lifestyle and visual needs. As a leader in laser vision correction and cataract surgery, our goal is to help you achieve the best vision possible without glasses or contact lenses. More information can be found online at https://michiganlasik.com.
Posted on February 18, 2019 by admin
Warning Signs Of Cataracts
Cataracts are a clouding in the lens of an eye that causes the impairment of an individual’s vision. This eye disease affects over twenty-five million Americans that are 40 and over. Once individuals have reached 75, over half of them will be diagnosed with cataracts.
As adults age the eye’s lens starts to yellow and harden which creates blurry vision, dull perception of colors, and night time driving becomes difficult. Cataracts do not get better and in fact get worse overtime. In fact, cataracts have several stages as they progress. It is important to treat the symptoms of cataracts in order to slow or stop cataracts from getting worse. In order to get a proper diagnosis and treatment plan it is crucial to visit an ophthalmologist. Planning treatment for cataracts slows down the need for cataract surgery.
Early Warning Signs of Cataracts
Cataracts range in severity and the treatment will depend on the development and type of cataract you have. Early signs of cataracts include:
Cloudy Vision:
Fuzzy spots are the most obvious early sign of cataracts. If individuals start to experience small, fuzzy spots in your field of vision that seem to worsen over time, you may be developing one of the first sign of cataracts. These signs will start to make normal, daily activities harder than ever before. If you notice the quick onset of cloudy vision it is important to get into the eye doctor sooner rather than later.
Difficult Night Vision:
Individuals with the early stages of cataracts also mention a gradual decrease in vision at night. Changes to vision may include darkening or dimming and may also lead to tinges of brown and yellow. During the day changes may not be as noticeable because there is light to balance vision that is dimming however, at night it is instantly noticeable.
Light Sensitivity:
Individuals with emergent cataracts experience discomfort with bright lights. This becomes more and more difficult to manage as cataracts worsen. If you notice you are squinting or closing your eyes more around bright light or noticing headaches that come on quickly from flashes and bright lights, it is time to schedule an appointment with an ophthalmologist.
Halos and Glares:
As cataracts worsen, the lens of the eye hardens and becomes cloudier. Some cataract suffers mention the appearance of a glare or halo in their field of vision. The light that passes through the cataract is diffracted which causes a glare and ringlets around bright sources of light. During the day the halos and glares are less noticeable then that are in the evening.
Vision Changes:
During the earliest stages of cataracts, individuals may notice changes in vision. Regular eye exams are crucial for older adults. In fact, ophthalmologists often detect cataracts before individuals notice a difference in vision.
Cataract damage is not reversible however, there are some things you can do to slow down their progression. It is important to talk with your eye doctor first to determine if cataract surgery is needed before cataracts worsen. Some ways to increase the health of your eye include eating a diet rich in omega-3 fatty acids, wearing sunglasses, determine if your prescription medicine worsen the effects of cataracts, and treat dry eyes with daily eye drops.
Rohr Eye & Laser Center offers the most advanced technology available to suit your lifestyle and visual needs. As a leader in laser vision correction and cataract surgery, our goal is to help you achieve the best vision possible without glasses or contact lenses. More information can be found online at https://michiganlasik.com.
Posted on November 21, 2018 by admin
Coping with Cataracts
Cataracts are a way of life for people as they age. If you notice a cloudiness in your vision, you are most likely developing cataracts. The clouding is in your eye’s natural lens that lies behind the iris and pupil. This eye disease is the leading cause of blindness throughout the world. More people have cataracts across the world than the combination of diabetic retinopathy, macular degeneration, and glaucoma according to PBA, Prevent Blindness America. In fact, 22 million Americans over the age of 40 are experiencing cataracts.
Three Types of Cataracts
Subcapsular: This is a cataract that develops at the back of the lens. People that suffer from diabetes or take a high dose of steroid medicine are at a greater risk of developing subcapsular cataracts.
Nuclear: This type of cataract is often associated with aging and forms deep within the nucleus of the lens.
Cortical: Cortical cataracts appear in the lens cortex (part of the lens surrounding the central nucleus) and often appears as white wedge, working from the periphery of the lens and moves into the center of the lens like a spoke.
Symptoms & Signs
Cataracts begin small and have little effect to a person vision however overtime you will notice that your vision will become a bit hazy and blurred. You may notice that you become more sensitive to light as well. The symptoms that are experienced often vary from person to person as well as on the type of cataract that has developed. An eye exam can give you an official diagnosis.
Causes
The lens of your eye acts similar to a camera lens. Light is focused onto the retina which gives you clear vision. It adjusts focus to let things be seen close and far away. The eyes lens is made up of proteins and water. Proteins are arranged in a way that keeps the lens clear and allows light to pass through. As we get older the proteins may get clumped together and cloud the lens. This is a cataract and will continue to grow making it harder and harder to see clearly. It is not exactly clear why the lens changes and form cataracts however some risk factors are:
Ultraviolet radiation from the sun
Family history
Abuse of alcohol
Hormone replacement therapy
Extended use of corticosteroid medication
Smoking
Obesity
Diabetes
High blood pressure
Previous eye surgeries, injuries, and inflammation
Prevention
There are a number of studies, mostly controversial, show that certain nutrients and nutritional supplements can help reduce the risk of cataracts. Higher intakes of vitamin E, carotenoids lutein, and zeaxanthin from supplements and nutrients in food have shown to decrease the risk of cataracts. Wearing sunglasses that offer 100% blockage of the suns UV rays help to reduce the chances of cataracts. Eye vitamins, a healthy diet, and good nutrition can help in the prevention of cataracts.
Treatment
As symptoms occur your vision may be improved with new glasses, bifocal, increased lighting, and the use of other visual aids. Surgery is only considered after cataracts have progressed and impair your vision and affect daily happenings. Most people think that bad vision occurs as a normal part of aging but surgery to correct cataracts is fairly simple, pain free, and widely available.
Cataract surgery is successful in restoring vision. 3 million Americans undergo surgery for cataracts each and every year. In fact, 9 out of 10 people regain good eye sight after cataract surgery, between 20/20 and 20/40. Surgeons remove the cloudy lens and replace it with a clear, plastic intraocular lens, IOL.
Recovery
It is important to take time to recover from surgery. Don’t plan on driving for a few days and avoid strenuous lifting and activities. It is important not to bend over or put pressure on your eye.
Rohr Eye & Laser Center offers the most advanced technology available to suit your lifestyle and visual needs. As a leader in laser vision correction and cataract surgery, our goal is to help you achieve the best vision possible without glasses or contact lenses. More information can be found online at https://michiganlasik.com.
Posted on October 5, 2018 by admin
Vision Correction Surgery: What You Should Know About Cataract Surgery
One of the benefits of aging is the amazing side effects it has on our bodies! Of course, we are being sarcastic however, it is true that as your age increases so do the ailments that affect us. One of the most common side effects of aging is the development of cataracts.
Cataracts are described as a cloudiness on the lens inside your eye. Often the loss of vision due to cataracts cannot be corrected with the use of contacts, glasses or corneal refractive surgery, LASIK. We know this sounds scary at first. However, vision can be restored when it is lost because of cataracts with modern cataract surgery. Surgery for cataracts often reduce the dependence on vision correction methods as well.
As previously mentioned cataracts are most often associated with the process of aging. Cataracts are more common to seniors and in fact up to 70% of Americans over 80 have been affected by cataracts. This number is expected to continue to increase in the years ahead. This is just one of the reasons eye surgeons have taken modernizing cataract surgery so seriously. It is expected that the population of the United States affected by cataracts is to nearly double by the middle of the century.
One of the safest, most effective, widely performed surgical procedures now-a-days is cataract surgery. Three million cataract surgeries are performed each and every year, the majority resulting in unparalleled visual outcomes.
During cataract surgery the cloudy lens inside the patient’s eye is removed and replace with an intraocular lens, IOL. This artificial lens helps to restore clear vision. The surgical procedure is most often performed on an outpatient basis and doesn’t require the patient to stay overnight. Modern cataract surgery involves the use of a high-frequency ultrasound that is used to break the cloudy lens into small pieces that can be removed.
Modern cataract removal is known as phacoemulsification, phaco for short, and is performed using smaller incisions than used in previous cataract techniques which allow for faster healing times and a reduction in the risks such as retinal detachment that can occur as a complication of cataract surgery.
Once all of the remnants of the cloud have been removed from the lens the surgeon then inserts the clear intraocular lens. It is positioned in the same location as your natural lens, behind the iris and pupil. Special circumstances may require the lens be placed in front of the iris and pupil, but this is not common.
Once the cataract surgeon has removed the cataract and finished the IOL implant procedure with the closing of the incision that was made to your eye a protective shield is put into place over the eye. This shield is in place to protect the eye as you recover from surgery.
Rohr Eye & Laser Center offers the most advanced technology available to suit your lifestyle and visual needs. As a leader in laser vision correction and cataract surgery, our goal is to help you achieve the best vision possible without glasses or contact lenses. More information can be found online at https://michiganlasik.com.
Recent Posts
SEO Trends That Will Increase Website Visibility in the Coming Year
Software Development For iPhones and Android Using Cordova
FAQs On Selling and Servicing New and Refurbished Linear Accelerators and Parts
Electrical Distribution Equipment Failure – Keep or Discard
Reasons To Look Into Purchasing Refurbished vs. New
Companies
Acceletronics
Anchor
Aspen Construction
Bohikian Law
C21 Lady of the Lakes
CPSMI
Event Planninc DC
Glen Miller the Home Doctor
Home Pro Roofing of Michigan
iFenceUSA
Innov-Research
J & P Electrical Company
JFC Remodeling
Kearns Brothers
Matrix
Medicare Supplemental Insurance Plans
Medicare Supplemental Insurance- Arizona
Medicare Supplemental Insurance- Michigan
Medicare Supplemental Insurance- New York
Medicare Supplemental Insurance- Tennessee
Medicare Supplemental Insurance- Texas
Medigap Insurance Plans
Medigap AZ
Medigap MI
Medigap NY
Medigap TN
Medigap TX
Michigan Lasik
Pound Pool Plastering
Radparts
Reynolds Water
SAC Fence
Sean J. Nichols
Proudly powered by WordPress. Theme: Libretto by WordPress.com.