How to Know If a Blood Clot Formed Over a Tooth Extraction | Healthfully
x
healthfully
Search Glass
Diseases and Injuries
Family Health
Nutrition
Weight Management
Appearance
Tea Remedies for Toothache
Sore Gums After Eating Sugar
Toothaches & Salt
Foods That Cause Yellow Teeth
Pain After Tooth Extraction
How to Get Nicotine Stains off of Dentures
How to Know If a Blood Clot Formed Over a Tooth Extraction
By Jerry Shaw ; Updated July 27, 2017
Related Articles
Tea Remedies for Toothache
Sore Gums After Eating Sugar
Toothaches & Salt
Foods That Cause Yellow Teeth
Blood clots are important in the healing process following tooth extraction. The loss of any clot following the dental procedure can lead to "dry socket," which can infect the area after the extraction. If a blood clot does not form or if it is dislodged it can harm or prolong the healing process. A dentist needs to be immediately contacted if this happens. Clots can become dislodged within the first 24 hours after extraction from vigorous rinsing or spitting. Suction from a straw or smoking can also dislodge a clot. Hot liquids, such as coffee or soup, can dissolve the clot.
Keep the gauze over the extraction site so firm pressure is applied for about an hour. The dentist usually provides you with gauze following extraction. You will leave the office with gauze in your mouth over the treated area.
Remove gauze carefully to see if the bleeding has stopped.
Apply more gauze to control any bleeding during the first 24 hours. A slightly moistened tea bag is an effective gauze substitute and even helps in the formation of clotting because of the tea's tannic acid. If bleeding persists after 24 hours, contact your dentist.
When the clot starts forming you will notice a dark red film-like substance over the extraction. It may even look and feel like a soft piece of chocolate.
Be careful when touching the area and only touch it if it is difficult to see the clot, depending on where the extraction is located. A dental mirror can help during this process. You should only have to touch the spot briefly, but not at all if you can see the dark clot.
Instead of brushing, rinse gently with a mixture of salt and water for the next few days.
Warnings
The failure of a blood clot to form only happens in about 5 percent of tooth extractions. It may result in pain after several days. If no clot forms or if it is dislodged, the dentist should apply medication to the socket.
Things Needed
Gauze
Tea bag
Dental mirror (optional)
Salt
Water
Video of the Day
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
About the Author
Jerry Shaw writes for Spice Marketing and LinkBlaze Marketing. His articles have appeared in Gannett and American Media Inc. publications. He is the author of "The Complete Guide to Trust and Estate Management" from Atlantic Publishing.
More Related Articles
How to Stop Puffy Eyes
How to Get the Yellow Off Retainers
How to Clean a Toothbrush
Related Articles
How to Get Nicotine Stains off of Dentures
Read More
Home Remedies for Healing Sores
Read More
Get Fit!
Try our healthfully BMI and weight loss calculator!
How to Get Rid of Blood Clot in Finger
Read More
Homemade Remedies for the Removal of Plaque From Teeth
Read More
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the HEALTHFULLY.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on HEALTHFULLY.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. HEALTHFULLY.COM does not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the website.