14 Relaxing Home Remedies for Nausea
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Rapid Home Remedies
Alternative/Natural Home, Health & Beauty Remedies
Home
Home Remedies
Herbal Remedies
Hair Care
Skin Care
Weight Loss
Start Here
14 Relaxing Home Remedies for Nausea
July 4, 2018 By Sara Leave a Comment
Nausea is one feeling which is as common as crying or laughing! Maybe this statement is too raw but each of us has felt nauseating some or the other times in our lives. It is that before-feeling of vomit that urges you to put something out of your body and it definitely doesn’t feel good. You may or may not vomit after that. Nausea is also a very vague symptom of a wide range of diseases which may include as basic a disease as dehydration, migraine, heartburn, or motion sickness to as complex a disease as heart attack and cancer! However, most of the time, nausea is the result of bad eating habits. You just want to expel out that wrong food which you have eaten and which your body is not ready to accept. It’s upon you to identify the cause of your nausea, of course, based upon your recent food history as well as illness history and some common sense. If it is nothing serious and just that simple pukish feeling, here are some best home remedies for nausea that will calm you down.
Home Remedies for Nausea
1. Ginger Remedies for Nausea
Ginger is by far one of the best remedies for nausea, even for the one during pregnancy or after chemotherapy. When you eat ginger, in any form, you trigger the secretion of digestive juices that will help to neutralize your stomach acid. Ginger root has volatile oils that not only help in digestion but also soothe irritated stomach linings while toning muscles of your digestive tract. The best way is to use ginger in your daily cooking. You need to use 1-2 inch piece of ginger root daily as a preventive measure for nausea and all digestive disorders. However, when you already have nausea, you may have ginger tea. Whatever way you have ginger, just do not have commercially available ginger ale because it is anything but ginger. You need real ginger and not the artificial ginger flavor!
Make ginger tea to get rid of nausea
Get this:
Ginger root- 1-2 inches piece
Water- 1-2 cups
Honey (optional)- 1-2 tsp
Do this:
Slice the ginger root. You may also chop it into rough pieces or crush it using mortar and pestle.
Boil water.
Add sliced, chopped or crushed ginger to the boiling water.
Let it boil for 2-3 minutes.
Put off the flame, cover and let it steep for another 2-3 minutes.
Strain and mix honey if using.
Sip your ginger tea to get relief from nausea.
You can even let it cool down and have it later.
Other ways to use ginger for nausea
Chew raw ginger. You may sprinkle a little black salt onto the raw ginger and chew this.
Add 1 tsp ginger juice, 1 tsp lemon juice and ¼ tsp baking soda to one glass of water and have this.
Take out the juice of onion to get 1 tsp onion juice. Mix 1 tsp grated ginger to this and have it to get relief from nausea.
Add 1 tsp honey to 1 tsp of ginger juice. Mix well. Have this either with a spoon or by licking it with the help of your finger.
2. Lemon Juice Remedies for Nausea
The fresh lemony smell is all you need to push off that nauseating feeling. Of course, you can even have lemon juice internally. The citric acid in lemon helps neutralize your stomach acids. Having lemon, like ginger, is also a traditional remedy for nausea.
Make a lemon drink for treating nausea
Get this:
Fresh lemon juice- from half a lemon
Water- 1 glass
Salt- ¼ – ½ tsp
Do this:
Add lemon juice and salt to water. If you suffer from high blood pressure or are on a salt restricted diet, omit using salt or use only a pinch of it.
Mix well.
Take the glass near your nose and smell the fresh lemony scent.
Now drink this salty lemon water.
Other ways to use lemon for nausea
Add 1 tsp honey with 1 tsp of lemon juice. Mix well. Dip your finger in this and lick it off while taking a deep breath to get the lemony smell.
Add 1 tsp honey or ½ tsp sugar with 1 tsp of lemon juice in a cup of water. Drink this for immediate relief from nausea.
Take a lemon and cut it into two halves. Take one half of lemon and bring it close to your nose. If it is too strong a smell, take it back a little. Adjust the position of lemon till you get a soothing smell of lemon. Breathe deeply, having the smell of lemon. You’ll instantly feel better and your sense of nausea will go away.
Take a half of lemon. Roast this half of lemon on gas flame for few seconds. Use tongs to hold the lemon piece in an inverted position over the flame- yellow peel on top and the inner portion over the flame. After a few seconds, the sides of the lemon will turn black. Remove from the flame. Sprinkle a little rock salt (or table salt) on it and suck this lemon. Check the hotness of the lemon, let it cool down to the point where you can tolerate.
You may even suck on a lemon piece without doing anything else. This is good for morning sickness.
3. Cumin Remedies for Nausea
Cumin seeds are extensively used in Indian and Middle Eastern cooking for their fine therapeutic properties one of which is a digestive aid. Cumin helps secrete digestive enzymes in the pancreas which not only leads to proper digestion but also proper assimilation of nutrition in your body.
Make cumin tea for nausea relief
Get this:
Cumin seeds- 1 tsp
Hot water- 1 cup
Nutmeg powder- a pinch
Do this:
Put the cumin seeds in a cup.
Pour hot water over the seeds.
Cover and let it steep for 3-5 minutes.
Mix a pinch of nutmeg powder and have this tea.
Do not discard the cumin seeds, eat them as well.
Other ways to use cumin for nausea
Eat 1 teaspoon of cumin seeds for getting quick relief from nausea.
Add half tsp of cumin powder in a cup of water and drink this.
You may also mix cumin seeds in a cup of water and have it.
4. Have Mint Tea for Nausea Remedy
Mint leaves have been used as a traditional remedy for a host of medical conditions including nausea. Mint has an oil in it which is antispasmodic in nature. It relaxes the muscles in your stomach and prevents cramping as well as nausea. Peppermint tea is exceptionally beneficial for nausea which is there due to intestinal cramping. Chinese medicine considers peppermint or spearmint a “cold” alternative for an internally heated up body. When your body wants something cold or when you feel irritable or even hot-tempered, sipping peppermint or spearmint tea works.
Make Mint tea to get relief from nausea
Get this:
Fresh or dried mint leaves- 1 tsp (if fresh, only 3-4 leaves will do)
Hot water- 1 cup
Honey (optional)- 1 tsp
Do this:
Place mint leaves in a cup.
Pour hot water over it.
Cover and steep for 3-5 minutes.
Add honey if using and sip your mint tea.
If you want, you can also strain the tea to discard mint leaves but it’s better if you chew them along.
5. Inhale Peppermint Oil Aroma for Nausea Relief
Just as the scent of lemon can cure nauseating feeling, peppermint oil too can soothe your nerves. Studies have found that the feeling of nausea may sometime be just psychological due to misreading signals by the brain. This is mostly true in cases of nausea due to motion sickness. Smelling soothing scents like that of peppermint oil can get you rid of nausea. Not only nerves, aromatic peppermint oil can also soothe your upset stomach.
Ways to use peppermint oil for nausea
Take a cotton swab and pour few drops of peppermint oil on it. Now apply this oil directly on your gums. You may also apply the oil using your finger but remember to wash it properly before doing this.
If you do not want to apply the oil on gums, just pour its few drops on a tissue and bring the tissue close to your nose. Now inhale the scent taking a deep breath. Inhale through the nose and exhale through the mouth while breathing deeply.
If you are too sensitive to strong smells or your skin is allergic, dilute the essential oil in some neutral oil such as mineral oil before using it.
6. Cinnamon Tea for Nausea
Spices and herbs with a strong smell and beneficial properties to soothe stomach come handy when it comes to remedies for nausea. Cinnamon is one such spice. It is antibacterial and antiviral in nature thus helping cure any stomach infection you might have got. The sweet smell of cinnamon, on the other hand, soothes your nerves to give you that so needed relaxing state when you feel nauseating.
Make cinnamon tea for nausea
Get this:
Cinnamon powder- ½ tsp OR Cinnamon stick- 1-2 inches piece
Hot water- 1 cup
Do this:
Put the cinnamon powder or stick in a cup.
Pour hot water over it.
Cover and steep for 3-4 minutes.
If you have used stick, discard it and sip your tea. If not, just stir and enjoy it.
Cinnamon is naturally a slightly sweet in taste so you need not add honey to it.
7. Ayurvedic Herbal Powder Mix for Recurring Nausea
Here is a powerful Ayurvedic herbal remedy for your nausea that keeps on coming back. You still use the common ingredients recommended for nausea in this remedy but in a way Ayurveda prescribes them.
Get this:
You need equal parts of the following ingredients. I have written 1 tablespoon for each, you may increase or decrease the quantity but keep them equal in quantity.
Amla (Indian gooseberry) powder- 1 tbsp
Cumin seeds powder- 1 tbsp
Cloves powder- 1 tbsp
Black pepper- 1 tbsp
Powdered crystal sugar (Misri)- 1 tbsp
Honey 1 tsp
Do this:
Take all the ingredients except honey and mix them.
Thus you get a herbal powder of amla, cumin, cloves, black pepper, and crystal sugar. Store this in an airtight container.
Every day, take out ¼ to ½ tsp of this powder mix and add with 1 tsp of honey and have it to keep nausea at bay.
8. Herbal Juice with Honey for Nausea
Here is yet another Ayurvedic remedy for nausea which uses the top ingredients recommended to get rid of that pukish feeling, ginger, mint, and lemon. This is also good for treating recurring nausea.
Get this:
Raw ginger- 1-inch piece
Mint leaves- 10-15
lemon juice- 1 tsp
Honey – 1 tsp
Do this:
Crush ginger and mint leave to get their paste.
Put this paste of ginger and mint onto a sieve and press to get the juice.
Now mix lemon juice and honey to this extracted ginger-mint juice.
Have this herbal mix two times daily to get rid of your nausea.
9. Rice Water Remedy for Nausea and Vomiting
Many a times nausea is just a feeling which doesn’t necessarily lead to vomiting but at other times it is the real problem. You may have nausea followed by vomiting. If it keeps on happening, you need to balance your electrolytes by taking salt-sugar-water. You may also try this unconventional remedy of having rice water which is very effective in alleviating nausea, especially when caused by gastritis. You should use white rice and not brown one for this remedy because what you need is plain starch and no fiber.
Get this:
Rice- ½ cup
Water- 2 cups
Do this:
Boil water.
Add rice to the boiling water.
Keep on boiling for 15-20 minutes or till when the rice is tender.
When the rice gets cooked, remove it and strain the water.
Drink this rice water hot or after cooling down.
You may also add a dash of lemon and a pinch of salt to make the rice water palatable.
10. Deep Breathing as a Remedy for Nausea
Some of the modern researches indicate that deep breathing can be an effective remedy for nausea, especially in those people who experience nausea in their post-surgery days. As many pleasant smells including those of lemon and mint have been used traditionally as remedies for nausea, Dr Jeffrey Gross and nurse Lynn Anderson conducted a study on the effects of aromatherapy on nausea that surprisingly underlined the importance of deep breathing in curing nausea. In this study, three groups of patients who had undergone various surgeries were formed. One of the groups was given gauze pads with rubbing alcohol, the other group was given pads with peppermint oil and the last group was given pads with a simple saline solution. All the groups had to inhale slowly through the nose and exhale through the mouth. After five minutes, almost all the patients of the three groups felt better and their nausea was also reduced to a considerable level. Not all the pads had pleasant smells but then also relief from nausea was common in all patients. The only thing all of them did was deep breathing which shows that deep breathing can cure nausea.
Do this:
If you can sit straight, do so otherwise keep lying and exercise deep breathing.
Close your eyes.
Inhale slowly through nose feeling the air going into your nose, your brain and to your lungs.
Now exhale through your mouth releasing all the air that you have taken in.
Do this for about 3-5 minutes.
11. Fennel Remedies for Nausea
Fennel has been used since ages to treat digestion-related conditions including intestinal gas, flatulence, nausea and vomit. The compound of fennel called ‘Anethole,’ a phytoestrogen, is responsible for its carminative action. Carminative herbs or preparations prevent the formation of gas in the gastrointestinal tract and also encourage expulsion of gas. The bioactive compounds of fennel excellently relax smooth muscle lining of the gastrointestinal tract preventing such problems as bloating, flatulence and nausea. Anything obtained from fennel seeds, fennel oil or fennel tea, helps in digestion. However, it should not be taken in excess and pregnant women should avoid having fennel seeds without consulting doctor as it is also high on estragole which can damage the genetic material of cells.
Ways to use fennel seeds for nausea
Take 1 tsp of fennel seeds and pour 1 cup of hot water over it. Cover and let it steep for about 10 minutes. Drink this fennel tea to relieve nausea. Don’t discard the seeds. Chew them too.
Take half to one teaspoon of fennel seeds and chew them slowly. Feel its smell while chewing and its juice going down to your stomach. You will feel refreshed.
Chewing fennel seeds after meals is good for general digestion. Making it a habit will keep your nausea at bay.
12. Aniseed Tea for Nausea Relief
Anise, belonging to the family of fennel herb, also contains anethole which gives it the fine digestive properties. Aniseed has been used by physicians in the 18th and 19th century for treating nausea, gas and infant colic. You may use aniseed in your cooking, sprinkle it on vegetables like carrots or pumpkin that are mild on your stomach. However, the best way to have aniseed is to brew a tea out of it.
Make aniseed tea for nausea
Get this:
Aniseed- ½ tsp
Boiling water- 1 cup
Do this:
Take aniseeds.
Pour boiling water over it.
Cover and let it steep for about 5 minutes.
Strain and drink this tea to get relief from nausea.
Have aniseed tea once a day.
13. Coriander Remedy for Nausea
Coriander has been traditionally used for the culinary purpose as well as medicinal purpose. It is a flavoring agent when it comes to cooking and digestive agent when talking about health benefits of coriander. While there are many more health benefits of coriander, it has been historically also used for curing gastrointestinal disorders like stomach ache, indigestion and nausea. Coriander seeds contain two oils named linalool and geranyl acetate which are powerful antioxidants and possible agents that sooth your digestive issues to give you relief from nausea and vomiting. When you make a milk-based tea out of coriander seeds, you not only love its taste but also find relief from your nausea.
Make coriander seeds tea for nausea
Get this:
Ground coriander seeds- ¼ tsp
Milk (optional) – ¼ cup
Water- ¾ cup (if not using milk, take 1 cup of water)
Honey (optional)
Do this:
Mix water and milk and heat them. If not using milk, boil water.
Put off the flame just when the milk-water mix starts boiling.
Add coriander seeds powder to this.
Cover and let it steep for 3-5 minutes.
Add honey if using, mix well and sip your coriander tea.
14. Rest, Cold Compress and Other Remedies for Nausea
While soothing herbs, spices, teas can give you relief from nausea, you also need to take rest and have light food to give your body a break. Here are some more remedies that will do good to you when you want to run away from nausea!
Apply a cold compress on your back and neck when you get a bout of nausea. If it is due to a migraine, a cold compress on the forehead too can help.
Rest is often the best remedy for nausea or vomiting. Get full rest while you feel uneasy due to nausea.
If your nausea is due to an upset stomach, try to have more clear liquids. Water, lime juice, clear broths, herbal tea like peppermint, chamomile, rosemary etc. will give you relief.
Be kind to your digestive system and have light foods. In fact, follow BRAT diet which is a bland diet- Banana, Applesauce (without sugar), Rice and Toast.
Avoid spicy and fried food. Do not overeat.
Don’t take the stress. The more you get anxious, the more you feel nauseating.
Don’t suppress the urge to vomit when you feel nauseating. You will feel better afterwards.
If after taking all the precautions and applying one or multiple home remedies for nausea, your condition doesn’t improve, seek medical assistance as your nausea may be a symptom of some other serious disease.
Filed Under: Home Remedies Tagged With: Natural Remedies, nausea
Reader Interactions
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Copyright © 2018 - Rapid Home Remedies