Skin Peels - Ann's Serenity Day Spa and Salon
JOIN US TODAY
Home
Spa Packages
Hair/Nails/Massages
Hairstyling >
HAIR PRODUCTS
Manicure / Pedicures
Make-up
Massages
Additional Services -waxing,ear candling, Lash/brow dying, massage,
Facials/Skin Care
Advanced Skin Care
Lamprobe - removal of skin irregularities >
Dermatude or META
Skin Peels
SKIN CARE
Skin Products
Consent Forms
Skin Abnormalities
KNOW YOUR PRODUCT-INGREDIENTS >
Testimonials on product services
Teeth Whitening
More...
Air Brush Tanning
Bridal Corner
Health and Skin
CHEMICAL PEELS
Chemical peels are one of the best ways to refresh your skin when it's feeling dull and rough. Depending of the kind of chemical peel you get, they can help fade dark marks, even out skin tone, improve fine lines, and treat sun damage
TREATMENT FOR HYPERPIGMENTATION: With a customized skin care regimen, you can minimize the appearance of hyperpigmentation. In addition to using sunscreen with at least an SPF of 15, there are key ingredients to look for in skincare products that can help treat hyperpigmentation such as alpha hydroxy acids (AHAs). Examples of AHAs are glycolic and lactic acid. AHAs help remove the buildup of dead surface cells that are already stained with pigment, thus lessening discoloration. Other ingredients that are excellent for treating hyperpigmentation include Kojic Acid (found in the Whitening Mask) Niacinamide a tyrosinasa inhibitor and Vitamin C (the Vitamin C Serum).
THIS PAGE WILL BE DESIGNED TO EDUCATE THE CONSUMER
ABOUT SKIN PEELS AN WHAT INGREDIENTS ARE IN EACH ONE
This is still being worked on....
Why Do We Use Acids on the Skin: To remove surface proteins and to initiate an injury response in the skin. Acid is any substance that is capable of dominating or giving up a hydrogen ion H+
Glycolic Acid Peel Price $55.00
Type of alpha hydroxy (AHA) peel
Good for fading acne marks and other dark spots
Helps with blackheads
Deep cleans pores
Harsher than lactic acid peels
Smooths rough skin
Evens skin tone
Improves the appearance of light wrinkles
Considered light peels
Peel solution is usually clear and watery
Little to no downtime (unless you use a very high % peel)
Lactic Acid Peel Price $70.00
add a Red Tea Mask for $10.00 extra
Type of alpha hydroxy acid (AHA) derived from milk
Good for hyper pigmentation (better than glycolic acid peels for this)
Good chemical peel for first time users
Good peel to use on all skin types exceptional for minimizing pore size
Considered a light peel
Smooths skin and gives healthy glow
Better than glycolic acid peels for those with dry skin
Fades dark marks
Improves the appearance of light wrinkles
Little to no downtime (unless you use a very high % peel
Dermafrost 12.5% and 25% Price $75.00
Antibacterial Salicylic Acid designed to treat oily and acneic skin. May be used for anti-aging depending on client conditions. Client can expect peeling for 3-5 days after treatment.
Must avoid if Aspirin or salicylic sensitivity
History of being highly allergic to anything
Pregnant or nursing
Accutane® within the last year
Antibiotics – topical or systemic
Broken skin or herpetic breakout
Laser surgery within the last twelve weeks
Using glycolic acid, Retin -A® or Renova® in the last 4 weeks
TCA Peel Price: 75.00
Good for: acne marks and hyperpigmentation
Helps repair sun damage
Improves fine lines and wrinkles
Can improve the appearance of very shallow acne scars
Can improve the appearance of stretch marks
Can improve the appearance of skin tags at high concentrations
Medium-depth peel that requires several days of downtime (approximately 7-10 days)
Stronger peel than the above chemical peels
Skin will physically peel
Can be painful during the peel
Mandelic Acid Peel Price: $75.00
$10.00 each additional layers (will only do 3 layers)
Type of alpha hydroxy acid (AHA) derived from the bitter almond nut
Less irritating than glycolic and lactic acids
Good for those new to chemical peels
Considered a "gentle" peel with very little topical discomfort
Exfoliates dead skin cells
Good for those with acne prone skin
Good for those with Rosacea
Safe to use for those with darker skin tones
Evens out skin tone
Improves the appearance of light wrinkle
Little to no down time this peel combines the strength of a Jessners with the lightening properties on Mandelic acid to target pigmentation related to sun damage or acne. This is our favorite peel for pigmentation issues!
Salicylic Acid Peel Price $65.00
Type of beta hydroxy acid (BHA) peel
Tends to be a deeper peel than alpha hydroxy (AHA) peels
Good for oily, acne-prone skin
Helps to unclog pores
Considered a light peel
Little to no downtime
Peel solution is clear and watery
Must avoid this peel if allergic to aspirin*
Jessner's Peel Price $75.00 for 1 layer
$10.00 each additional
Good for those with oily, acne-prone skin
Not good for those with sensitive or dry skin
Usually based in alcohol, so can be drying for some people
Stronger than glycolic or salicylic acid peels, but weaker than TCA peels
Peel solution is usually a combination of 14% lactic acid, salicylic acid, and resorcinol
Need approximately one week of downtime
Skin will frost and physically peel
Often recommended for cystic acn
Avoid this peel if: Allergic to resorcinol, Aspirin or salicylates
Be off Retin-A® or Renova within last 4 week
Laser resurfacing within last 6 months
Accutane® within the last year
Hypersensitivity
Dry and dehydrated skin or compromised lipid barrier
Pregnant or nursing
Glycolic or salicylic acid within last week
Herpetic breakout (cold sore) Open wounds or suspicious lesions
Phenol Peel Done by Dermatologist
Very deep chemical peels, one of the strongest available
Reduces wrinkles & removes freckles and skin growths
Improves appearance of superficial acne scars
Fades hyperpigmentation and skin discolorations
Requires local anesthesia during the procedure
Requires pain medicine post-procedure
Takes at least one month to fully recover
Skin will turn red, get swollen, ooze, and crust before turning brown and flaking off
Skin will be red for 2-3 months post-peel
Skin pallor is a potential side effect, so you will see a line of demarcation where the peel is applied
Best for those with fair skin
Not suitable for darker skin types
Side Effects and Warnings:
Redness and irritation:
Redness and irritation are the most common side effects of chemical peels. Light peels will leave your skin red for a day, while deeper peels will leave your skin red for two or more days. Super deep peels, where your skin physically peels, might give your skin a pinkish tone for several weeks after you finish peeling. Irritation from chemical peels include dry, itchy, or flaky skin. These side effects will usually go away on their own and won't hinder everyday activities. Post-peel, you should avoid using harsh products, such as those with acids orretinoids, because they will worsen any redness and irritation. You should also avoid exfoliating and rubbing your skin. Moisturizer, sunscreen, and makeup, however, are safe to use post-peel.
Sun sensitivity:
After you get any chemical peel done, you want to avoid the sun. You can use a good sunscreen (SPF 30 or higher, ¼ teaspoon all over your face half an hour before you go out) if you're going outside, but I tend to stay indoors and not put anything on my skin while the peel is fresh. After you heal from your peel, you still have to wear a good sunscreen to prevent any further damage to your skin. While you are indoors, be aware that sunlight still makes it through windows. Whenever I get a chemical peel, I wear a big UV proof hat, even when I'm inside. It seems a bit extreme, but you really don't want to get any sun exposure when your skin is so sensitive because that could cause parts of your skin to permanently brown.
Swelling and/or peeling skin:
Mild or light peels usually do not cause your skin to swell or peel. Medium-strength peels, such as TCA peels, may cause swelling and peeling (in flakes instead of in dramatic, big sheets or skin). Both swelling and peeling skin will subside in around one week. However, if you get a deeper peel, that time may vary.
Infection and/or scarring:
Infection and scarring are not very common, but they are more likely with deep peels, such as phenol peels. Taking proper care of your skin post-peel drastically reduces the chances of infection and scarring. Scarring, however, will depend on your skin type. If you have skin prone to scarring, you should probably avoid getting deep peels because you cannot predict how your skin will heal. It doesn't mean that if you get a deep peel, you will automatically get an infection and scar, but there is a greater risk of those two things happening the deeper the peel you get.
Pigmentation changes:
For some people, chemical peels can cause skin to depigment, or in other words, turn a lighter color than the surrounding area. This can happen in patches on your skin. It can also occur when the places the peel was applied leaves a line of demarcation on your face. Light, olive, and light brown skin tones tend to do well with chemical peels. However, those with darker skin tones run a higher risk of this discoloration. The opposite, or browning of the skin, can also happen. This usually occurs when people expose their newly peeled skin to the sun without adequate protection or if people use too strong of a peel right away and permanently damage their skin. Proper post-peel care and smart peel selection can prevent this from happening. In addition, dark spots and red marks you're trying to fade may appear darker right after the peel. This is usually temporary and will fade with time or with more peels. They look temporarily darker because the chemical peel is bringing the pigmentation closer to the surface of your skin.
Who should not use chemical peels:
Chemical peels are not suitable for everyone, especially high concentration peels or medium-strength peels like TCA peels. People who are immune impaired, pregnant, lactating, on Roaccutane, or prone to keloids/scarring should not use chemical peels. Similarly, those with active infections, skin diseases, or overall poor health should avoid getting chemical peels. People with Rosacea or those with sensitive skin may also want to stay away from these facial treatments. The acid in the peel solutions could inflame skin even more or be overly irritating.
Dermafrost 12.5% and 25%
Antibacterial Salicylic Acid designed to treat oily and acneic skin. May be used for anti-aging depending on client conditions. Client can expect peeling for 3-5 days after treatment. Price: $75.00
DermaFrost PeelDescriptionConsidered a “lunch-time peel”. Derma Frost has two strengths, 12.5% and 25%. A higher strength agent, salicylic has the benefits of alpha-hydroxy acid, yet is more effective in the treatment of early to moderate photo aging.
Contraindications:
Aspirin or salicylic sensitivity
History of being highly allergic to anything
Pregnant or nursing
Accutane® within the last year
Antibiotics – topical or systemic
Broken skin or herpetic breakout
Laser surgery within the last twelve weeks
Using glycolic acid, Retin -A® or Renova® in the last 4 week
The MandeliClear Peel System was developed specifically for attenuating pigmentation issues associated with darker Fitzpatrick skin types. The system can be classified as a modified Jessner, containing 7% lactic, 7% salicylic and 7% resorcinol, in an ethanol base with quillaja bark. It also contains 9% mandelic acid, which is often derived from almond and wild cherry sources. Mandel is German for almond. This peel is safe, gentle, and well tolerated by most skin types. $75.00
Skin Type Indications:
Fitzpatrick I, II, III. Fitzpatrick IV and V requires pre-treatment.
Effective for lightening pigmentation due to acne, melasma or photodamaged skin.
May be repeated every 2-3 months.
Contraindications
Aspirin or salicylic sensitivity
Pregnancy
Excessive open lesions
Highly sensitive skin type
Lactic Acid Peel Three Strengths: 30%, 35% and 45%
Aging, acneic or keratizined skin. Tolerated by most skin types for full timing. Can be used up to 5 minutes on any Fitzpatrick skin type. This peel can be repeated every 4 weeks.
Contraindications:
Hypersensitivity or anyone highly allergic
Severely dry and dehydrated skin or those with a compromised lipid barrier
Accutane® with the past year
Pregnancy or nursing
Glycolic acid or salicylic acid within past week
Retin-A® or Renova® within the past week
Herpetic breakout
Open wounds or suspicious lesions
Directions:
Commonly used Acids in Skin Care: Apha Hydroxy Acids
Glycolic Acid: dissolve the desmosome protein linkages causing a burst in skin exfoliation, gives the skin a more youthful appearance, stimulates collagen
Lactic Acid: causes an increase in the dermal glycosaminoglycan's and ceramides 35% and 45%
Mandelic Acid: derived for bitter almonds, lightly larger molecular than glycolic acid but more tolerable. Strong antibacterial properties making it effective for acne, good skin lightening, particularly for melisma and ochronosis. 7% lactic, Salicylic, and resorcinol with 9% mandelic
Causes of exogenous ochronosis
﻿Exogenous ochronosis can be caused from long term usage of certain ‘’skin lightening products’, even if the hydroquinone is in amounts as small as 2%. Skin lightening products are still prevalent in many parts of the world. Hydroquinone is the compound most frequently used in skin whitening products. Due to concerns about its side effects, it was almost banned by the FDA in 2006, as there were medical issues of carcinogenicity and reports of disfiguring ochronosis. In Europe, Hydroquinone has been banned in cosmetic creams since 2000.
﻿
The ph scale is an inverse scale, that is, the lower the number the stronger the acid. The scale goes from 0 to 14 with ph7 being neutral. Our body is ph 7.4.
ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE E-MAIL US OR CALL 719.269.9994
Ann's Serenity Day Spa Ann.guill@gmail.com