Fish Oil And Cholesterol: Can You It Fish Oil Help Lower Your Cholesterol and Triglycerides?
About
Best Creatine Supplements
Optimum Nutrition Creatine Powder
Best Green-Lipped Mussel Supplements
Best Omega 3 Supplements
Best Fish Oil Pills
BioTrust OmegaKrill 5X Review
Now Find the Best Krill Oil Supplements
Best Probiotics and Prebiotics Supplements
Xtend-Life Kiwi-Klenz Review
Best Protein Bars
Blog
Brain And Memory Supplements Review
Branched Chain Amino Acids: Now Find the Best BCAA Supplements
Contact
Deer Antler Spray And Supplements
Disclaimer
Disclosure
Find The Best Natural Supplements for Healthy Joints
Garcinia Cambogia Extract
General Health
Green Coffee Bean Extract
Green Tea Supplements Reviews
Best Price Life Extension Mega Green Tea Extract
NOW Green Tea Extract: Best Price
Health Concerns
Herbal Remedies and Ayurvedic Medicine
Best Ashwagandha Supplements and Blends
High Protein Cookie
Home
Hoodia Reviews
Hormonal Weight Loss Supplements
BioTrust IC-5 Review
Leptin Supplements: All About BioTrust LeptiBurn
Now Find the Best Leptin Supplements
Multivitamin Review
Xtend-Life Multi-Xtra – Multivitamin and Mineral Supplement with a Difference
Xtend-Life Total Balance Review
Natural Blood Pressure Supplement Reviews
Hypercet Blood Pressure Formula Review
Natural Cholesterol Supplements
Natural Weight Loss Supplements
Now Find the Best CoQ10 Supplements
Omega 3 QH Ultra Review
Privacy Statement
Protein Powder Reviews
BioTrust Low Carb Review
BSN Syntha-6 Protein Powder: Best Price
BSN Syntha-6 Review
Casein Protein Powder Supplements
Colostrum Supplements Review
Natural and Organic Protein Powders
Now Find the Best Soy Protein Powder
Optimum Nutrition 100% Casein Protein Best Price
Optimum Nutrition 100% Whey Gold Standard: Best Price
Optimum Nutrition Whey Protein Review
Whey Protein Reviews
Site Map
Test
Top Bodybuilding Supplements
Best Glutamine Powder Supplements
Best Nitric Oxide Supplements
Best Post Workout Supplements
Best Pre-Workout Supplements
Assault Pre-Workout Matrix: Best Price
BSN N.O. Xplode 2.0 Review
BSN N.O.-Xplode 2.0 Best Price
Cellucor C4 Extreme Best Price
Cellucor C4 Extreme Review
DHEA Supplements Reviews
Top Weight Gainer Supplements
Vitamins and Minerals
Now Find the Best Vitamin D3 Supplements
Vitamins and Minerals, and Their Roles
Write for Us
Supplements
Muscle and Fitness Supplements
Top Essential Oils
VitaminsandHealthSupplements.com
About
Blog
Aging & Skincare
Fitness & Fat Loss
Health & Wellness
News, Tidbits, and Updates
Nutrition and Diet
Healthy Recipes
Supplements Info & News
Something Else
Supplements
CoQ10
Multivitamins
Omega-3
Fish Oil Supplements
Probiotics and Prebiotics
Vitamins and Minerals
Herbal & Ayurvedic
Brain And Memory
General Health
Health Concerns
Blood Pressure
Cholesterol
Healthy Joints
Weight Loss
Muscle & Fitness
Natural Health and Fitness
Fish Oil And Cholesterol: Can Fish Oil Help Lower Your Cholesterol Levels?
The relationship between elevated levels of LDL cholesterol and increased risk of heart disease is uncontested. It is common knowledge that high levels of LDL cholesterol are bad news. In this article we shall look at the link between fish oil and cholesterol.
Although not as well researched as the connection between LDL cholesterol and heart disease, more researchers are starting to believe there is an inverse relationship between high levels of HDL cholesterol and heart disease. More people want to know whether fish oil can help lower cholesterol levels, particularly that of LDL (bad) cholesterol.
Fish Oil and LDL Cholesterol
Replacing saturated fat in the diet with fish oil has been scientifically proven to lower levels of harmful LDL cholesterol.1 Most Americans consume far more saturated fat than they need, and most do not consume nearly enough fish oil.
Individuals with high levels of LDL cholesterol are far more likely to develop heart disease than individuals with low levels of LDL cholesterol. Taking fish oil supplements on a daily basis is a safe and relatively inexpensive way to lower your risk of heart disease.
LDL cholesterol helps increase the risk of heart disease by promoting the development of plaque on artery walls. Fish oil helps the heart by helping to reduce plaque buildup.
Fish Oil and HDL cholesterol
Fish oil is capable of promoting small increases in HDL cholesterol levels.2 While this may not sound impressive, even slight increases in HDL cholesterol levels can significantly reduce the probability of having a heart attack. HDL cholesterol levels are normally very difficult to increase, and taking fish oil is one of the only ways to effectively raise them.
HDL cholesterol helps reduce the risk of heart attack by breaking up plaques on artery walls. It is able to do this because it has a much higher density than the LDL cholesterol that forms the plaques.
Fish Oil and Triglyceride Levels
Fish oil has even more powerful effects on triglyceride levels than cholesterol levels. Your risk of having a heart attack or a stroke isn’t just based on your cholesterol levels: it’s also powerfully affected by your triglyceride levels.3 If you’ve already had a heart attack, new research indicates that your risk of a second heart attack may be greatly reduced by using fish oil supplements.4
Triglyceride levels tend to increase with age. If you are middle-aged or older, fish oil supplements are almost a necessity for you.
Taking supplements on a daily basis can be challenging. It is very easy to miss a dose or two. To make sure you take your fish oil every day, you should consider using a pillbox with reminders or developing a system so that taking fish oil supplements becomes an ingrained habit. Once you have developed the habit of taking your fish oil every morning or every evening, you will rarely, if ever, forget to take it.
Making changes in your lifestyle is hard, but it is much easier to start taking fish oil daily than it is to develop a new exercise program. Of course, it goes without saying that for best results with fish oil, you should consider making additional changes in your diet and lifestyle.
The relationship between fish oil and cholesterol is strong enough to make fish oil alone effective at reducing the risk of heart disease. But combined with other dietary and lifestyle changes, its effects are even more powerful.
References:
1 Oregon State University: Essential Fatty Acids
2 New York University: High Triglycerides
3 Einstein College of Medicine: New Stroke Risk Factor
4 Baylor College of Medicine: Fish oil may play role in heart attack prevention
Related Posts:
For Men: Ways to Improve Your Sex Life Naturally
7 Healthy Reasons to Eat Eggs: Plus More That You…
12 Surprising Uses and Benefits of Aloe Vera:…
Top 10 Fat Burning Superfoods
Men: Use These Natural Herbs to Boost Sexual Performance
Natural Remedies for Seasonal Allergies
Don't be shellfish...
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Related Items:cholesterol, fish oil, fish oil and cholesterol, fish oil supplements, hdl cholesterol, LDL cholesterol
Click to comment
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail
Name *
Email *
Website
Current ye@r *
Leave this field empty
Click to cancel reply
Affiliate Disclosure
I may receive compensation from other websites I mention on my site. You should probably assume I do. To read the boring details please click here
VitaminsandHealthSupplements.com is proud to keep you informed about boosting your health through natural health supplements, including herbal remedies, good nutrition, and exercise.
About
Blog
Anti-Aging & Skincare
Contact
Disclaimer
Disclosure
Privacy Statement
Site Map
Copyright © 2010 VitaminsandHealthSupplements.com, Newark DE
To Top