Coffee Time: July 2016
Coffee Time
HOME
BEAUTY & FASHION
DIET & FITNESS
HEALTH
RECIPES
FAMILY
CAREER
ENTERTAINMENT
Sunday, July 31, 2016
Baking Soda And Lemon: A Miraculous Combination
Lemon juice and baking soda can kill cancer cells. Cancer patients are advised to have 2 tsps of organic lemon juice with 1/2 tsp of baking soda on an empty stomach. Lemon is a proven anti-carcinogen, anti-depressant, works against cysts, tumors and internal parasites. Where as baking soda helps normalize body pH level, which prevents cancer from spreading.
Studies have shown that baking soda and lemon juice could be a miraculous combination as it has the potential to kill the cancer cells. One of the largest manufacturers of drugs, states that after 20 laboratory tests conducted since 1970 they have proved that: Lemon cures cancer as it destroys carcinogenic cells in 12 types of cancers. Lemon prevents the spread of carcinogenic cells and has 10,000 times stronger effect then drugs like Adriamycin, chemotherapy and narcotic products.
Baking Soda and Lemon Juice Can Cure Cancer
Recent studies have shown that consuming citrus fruits, specifically lemons have prevented and in some cases cured cancer. And by adding baking soda you will normalize the pH of the body which does not allow the cancer to continue to spread. Since Chemotherapy has horrible side effects the worst being that it destroys healthy cells. Baking soda and lemon, on the other hand only kills the cancer cells.
Patients should drink two teaspoons of lemon juice with half a teaspoon of baking soda. Consume the drink before breakfast on an empty stomach for better effect. Please make sure to use organic lemons. Organic lemons are 100 times more effective than a lemon grown with chemical fertilizers and sprayed with chemicals. Lemon has already been proven to have strong anti – carcinogenic properties. In addition to this there are many other useful properties. It also has a strong effect on cysts and tumors.
Posted by coffetimeforus at 4:57 AM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: HEALTH
31 -Jul -16 Coffee Quote
Be so HAPPY that when others look at you they become HAPPY too.
Posted by coffetimeforus at 1:58 AM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: ENTERTAINMENT
Friday, July 29, 2016
Weekend Projects Under $20
These improvements may not cost a lot, but they'll make a big difference in how your home functions. Try one or more of these projects this weekend to make your home look and feel its best.
Creative bulletin board
Make a bulletin board from the drawer of an old dresser. Paint the drawer, then cut corkboard to fit the inside and glue in place. Cover with pretty paper. You'll have a place to pin favorite items as well as a new display shelf!
Sitting pretty
Doll up your desk with these fun jars. Use scallop-edge scissors to cut scrapbooking paper into strips. Tape the ends to form a cylinder that fits snugly inside the jar.
Clip-on pattern
A pair of $4 cloth napkins gains new purpose as cafe curtains when hung from a tension rod. Switch them out throughout the year for a quick refresh.
Rock bottom
Keep wet boots off hardwood floors with a shoe tray. Make your own with an inexpensive plastic serving tray lined with colorful glass beads or polished rocks.
Keys to success
Repurpose an old drawer for storage that's not out of sight. Screw cup hooks into the bottom of the drawer, then hang on the wall on a large sawtooth picture hanger.
Multishade photo display
Give photo mats a little flair with paint strips; they offer graduated shades of one color for a pretty ombre effect. Muted purples, for example, blend well with black-and-white scenes. Using double-sided tape, attach strips to mats. Trim to fit. For the narrow top and bottom borders, we cut out individual paint chips.
Tower of treats
Two old wine glasses and three pretty plates make for a display stand for sweets. Use Poster Putty to secure the glasses if you don't want this to be permanent.
Posted by coffetimeforus at 1:10 PM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: ENTERTAINMENT
Wednesday, July 27, 2016
Oreo Stuffed Peppermint Cookies
Delicious baked Chocolate Peppermint Cookies with a Mint Oreo cookie in the middle!
Ingredients
~ 1 cup butter (2 sticks or 226g), room temperature
~ 1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
~ 3 large eggs, room temperature
~ 1 teaspoon McCormick peppermint extract
~ 10 drops of McCormick green food coloring
~ 3 cups all-purpose flour
~ 2 teaspoons baking powder
~ 1 teaspoon baking soda
~ 1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
~ 1/2 teaspoon table salt
~ 12 ounces semi-sweet chocolate chips, divided (1/2 finely chopped)
Instructions
~ Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Prepare baking sheets with parchment paper.
~ Add the butter and sugar to the bowl of stand mixer beat on medium high speed until light and fluffy, or 1-2 minutes.
~ With the mixer on the lowest speed, and in eggs one at a time.
~ With mixer off, add in peppermint extract and food coloring. Turn on lowest speed and let ingredients incorporate.
~ In a separate bowl sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda, cream of tartar, and salt.
~ With mixer on low, add flour mixture to wet ingredients. Remove bowl from mixer.
~ Add in all chocolate to dough and mix by hand. Half of the chocolate should be chips (or large chunks) and the other half should be finely chopped. Mix until just combined.
~ Cover the dough and refrigerate for about an hour.
~ Using a medium ice cream scoop, (roughly 1-2 tablespoons) scoop out peppermint cookie dough and set it on top of cookie. Repeat until Oreo\'s all have peppermint cookie dough on them.
~ Carefully press the dough around the cookie (trying not to break the cookie) so that all of the Oreo is covered in peppermint cookie dough.
~ Repeat until all of the Oreo\'s are covered.
~ Bake for 8-12 minutes at 350 or until the cookies are JUST starting to brown on the edges.
~ Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 5 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.
Posted by coffetimeforus at 11:28 AM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: RECIPES
27 -Jul -16 Coffee Quote
Change is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or present are certain to miss the future.
Posted by coffetimeforus at 3:56 AM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: ENTERTAINMENT
Tuesday, July 26, 2016
Color of Your Urine Says About Your Health
Since the beginnings of medicine, the color of the urine has been used as a useful diagnostic tool. Its characteristics, including the color, density, and smell can indicate the state of our health. This article reveals some of the things your urine shows about you.
Your urine can change its color due to certain changes that happen in our body, it can range from no color, light nuances, to irregular, even strange colors.
Learn how its color indicates your health issues:
No Color (Transparent)
If your urine has no color, it means that your body has large amounts of water, so you should reduce the amount of water you consume.
Pale Straw Color
The normal color of the human urine is pale straw, so in this case, it means you keep a good balance in your body, you are healthy and well hydrated.
Transparent Yellow
This urine color also brings good news! It shows that you are in a perfect health condition.
Dark Yellow
This urine color shows that your health is also good, but it needs hydration. It is advisable to drink more fluids or water.
Amber or Honey
Your body is exhausted and is in urgent need of water or some liquids, if your urine is in this color. Your body is under the threat to completely dehydrate, so you must drink water immediately.
Syrup or Brown Ale
This color of the urine indicates that you have problem with liver, as many studies discovered. It may be liver disease or your body is dehydrated.
Pink to Reddish
If your urine is pink or reddish, and you haven’t eaten beets, blueberries or rhubarb recently, it indicates that you may have blood in your urine. It may not be a serious issue, but it can also be a sign of kidney disease, tumors, urinary tract infections, prostate problems, lead or mercury poisoning or something else. You should consult your doctor immediately.
Orange
Orange color of the urine may be a sign of a lack of water, a liver or bile duct condition, or food poisoning.
Blue or Green
This may be a sign of a rare genetic disease that can turn your urine blue or green. Moreover, it can also show that certain bacteria infect the urinary tract. In most cases, it is due to a food dye in something you ate, or a medication. If it lasts longer, visit your doctor.
Foaming or Fizzy
If it happens on occasions, it is probably a harmless hydraulic effect, but it could indicate excess protein in your diet or a kidney problem. If persistent, visit your doctor.
Posted by coffetimeforus at 1:53 AM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: HEALTH
Saturday, July 23, 2016
Healthy Breakfasts for Busy Mornings
When it comes to breakfast, the options are endless. Pancakes or waffles? Bacon and eggs? Muffin followed by a pastry? So why limit those delicious dishes to the morning hours?
Nut Butter, Banana, and Chia Seed Toast
Try this superfood twist on classic PB and toast with 1/2 a banana (sliced) and a sprinkle of chia, which is packed with vitamins and minerals (like six times more calcium than milk!).
Berry and Yogurt Smoothie
Here’s a simple and delicious smoothie for the morning rush. Blend frozen fruit (banana and berries work well) with Greek yogurt and a liquid of your choice (milk, juice, coconut water—whatever you like).
Tomato Toast With Macadamia Ricotta
Here’s a healthier take on a classic breakfast sandwich: Take 2 slices of a hearty whole-grain bread, spread each slice with 1 tablespoon of homemade macadamia ricotta cheese, and sprinkle with shiso or basil, kosher salt, and fresh cracked pepper to taste. Add 1-2 hearty slices of fresh heirloom tomatoes (blotted with paper towel to remove excess liquid) and enjoy.
Chocolate Quinoa Breakfast Bowl
Here’s a healthy way to have chocolate for breakfast. A bowlful of quinoa makes for a filling, protein-rich base, and the banana and berries add a few servings of fruit.
Coconut Yogurt Quinoa Muffins
By this point, it's probably obvious we think quinoa makes anything better. So when it comes to muffins? It’s a no-brainer. Try these little bites for breakfast or an after-lunch treat.
Posted by coffetimeforus at 1:52 PM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: RECIPES
Thursday, July 21, 2016
Best Chocolate Chip Cookies
Is there anything better than a fresh batch of soft chocolate chip cookies?
I think NOT.
Ingredients
~ 1 cup butter, softened
~ 1 cup white sugar
~ 1 cup packed brown sugar
~ 2 eggs
~ 2 teaspoons vanilla extract
~ 3 cups all-purpose flour
~ 1 teaspoon baking soda
~ 2 teaspoons hot water
~ 1/2 teaspoon salt
~ 2 cups semisweet chocolate chips
~ 1 cup chopped walnuts
Directions
~ Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
~ Cream together the butter, white sugar, and brown sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla. Dissolve baking soda in hot water. Add to batter along with salt. Stir in flour, chocolate chips, and nuts. Drop by large spoonfuls onto ungreased pans.
~ Bake for about 10 minutes in the preheated oven, or until edges are nicely browned.
Posted by coffetimeforus at 12:15 PM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: RECIPES
Wednesday, July 20, 2016
Full List Of Illegal Cancer-Causing Shampoos
Maybe you thought that the worst thing your shampoo could do to you is to blaze your eyes, yet for unknown reasons your cleanser could be fatal. The Center for Environmental Health situated in Oakland, California, performed a study on shampoos and cleansers and found that 98 consisted of conceivable cancer-causing agent known as cocamide diethanolamine
Cocamide Diethanolamine (cocamide DEA), a contentious fixing found in body care things, has handled four individual care makers with a claim in California.
The Center for Environmental Health documented the suit subsequent to finding the existence of cocamide DEA, the froth stabilizer and volumizer, in shampoos and cleansers. In the condition of California, Proposition 65 obliges makers to caution buyers over the dangers of specific substances. Cocamide DEA is on that list on the grounds that it is a suspected cancer-causing agent. It was banned in the state a year ago after a study thought that it was the reason for cancer in research laboratory creatures.
Some of the items that contain abnormal amounts of the illicit chemical are sold under well-known organizations, for example, Colgate Palmolive, Paul Mitchell, and Prell. Lab tests additionally discovered the cancer-causing agent in kids’ items, for example, a store brand bubble shower from KMart, and a cleanser/conditioner from Babies R Us. Other store brand items that contain the cancer-causing agent originated from Trader Joe’s, Walmart, and Kohl’s.
Sadly, manufacturers can put any poisonous substance they need into shampoos on the grounds that the FDA permits a wide range of chemicals to be utilized as a part of these items, including chemicals that are known cancer-causing agents and that add to liver failure and nervous system issue.
SIMPLE HOMEMADE NATURAL SHAMPOO
Necessary ingredients:
1/2 cup of coconut milk.
2/3 cup of Castile soap.
10- 15 drops of essential oil of your choice.
2 teaspoons of almond oil or you can use olive oil.
Combine every one of the ingredients in the bottle and shake. Simply give it a shake before you utilize.
Full list of all 98 suspect shampoos
Posted by coffetimeforus at 6:52 AM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: HEALTH
Tuesday, July 19, 2016
19 -Jul -16 Coffee Quote
The LAMPS are different but the LIGHT is the same.
Posted by coffetimeforus at 2:43 AM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: ENTERTAINMENT
The Most Effective Way To Make The White Clothes White Again
Maintaining the whiteness of your white clothes can be quite a challenge. In time, white clothes tend to turn yellowish or greyish, which is a real nightmare. Although most housewives turn to synthetic bleach, this only makes things worse as this chemical not only thins your clothes, but also fails to give the expected results.
How to restore your clothes’ whiteness?
Luckily, it doesn’t always come to expensive bleaches or detergents as there are a number of natural methods to make your clothes white again. In fact, one of the most efficient methods to whiten your laundry is potassium permanganate, which gives great results.
Potassium permanganate is easily available at any pharmacy. To effectively whiten your clothes, pour 10l water in a washbasin and add a few crystals of potassium permanganate. Wait until it’s well dissolved and pink. Don’t use too much potassium permanganate as the water will turn dark purple. Afterwards add 200g laundry detergent in the water. Stir well. Finally, put your laundry in this solution and cover the basin with a plastic bag. Leave it for at least 4-5 hours. You can also leave it to act overnight. Don’t worry about the uninviting water color.
4-5 hours later, or the next morning, remove the clothes from the basin, squeeze the water out of them and wash then a usual in your washing machine. You can also wash your clothes before putting them in this solution. If you washed your clothes before you used the potassium permanganate method, you just rinse them in clean water and hang out to dry.
If there’s need, repeat this bleaching method until you restore your clothes’ original whiteness.
Note:
Another common ingredient you can use to bleach white clothes is baking soda. Simply mix 2-3 tablespoons of baking soda with your laundry detergent. Baking soda is also helpful for softening hard water, thus making your laundry detergent more efficient. In fact, baking powder is commonly used as an efficient bleach substitute. The results are amazing!
Posted by coffetimeforus at 1:30 AM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: BEAUTY & FASHION
Sunday, July 17, 2016
Blood Sugar–Lowering Foods
It is no exaggeration--balancing your blood sugar could be a matter of life or death. Chronic high blood sugar levels are toxic to your body, destroying organs and blood vessels and paving the way to a heart attack, type 2 diabetes, stroke, dialysis, nerve damage, erectile dysfunction, or even blindness. The good news? Out-of-control sugar levels can be reigned in and regulated with the right foods.
Blueberries
A groundbreaking study published in the Journal of Nutrition in 2010 found a daily dose of the bioactive ingredients from blueberries increases sensitivity to insulin and may reduce the risk of developing diabetes in at-risk individuals. That's important because too many carbs produces too much insulin, which could lead to insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.
Adding blueberries to daily smoothies for six weeks also improves insulin sensitivity, so feel free to eat healthy doses of the superfood fruit, too.
Avocados
Don't let the fat content of avocados fool you—they're still good for you! Avocados are full of monounsaturated fat, the kind that helps slow the release of sugars into the bloodstream, prompting less insulin release, and can even help to lower your cholesterol.
Chia Seed
This ancient gluten-free grain stabilizes blood sugar, manages the effects of diabetes, improves insulin sensitivity, and aids symptoms related to metabolic syndrome, including imbalances in cholesterol, higher blood pressure, and extreme rises in blood sugar levels after meals.
Cinnamon
A 2003 study in the journal Diabetes Care showed that cinnamon may cause muscle and liver cells to respond more readily to insulin, thereby improving weight loss. Better response to insulin means better blood sugar balance and, therefore, less insulin released into your body.
Mangos
Mangos may taste sugary sweet, but this delicious fruit may actually lower blood sugar according to research published in the journal Nutrition and Metabolic Insights. "Our results indicate that daily consumption of 10 grams of freeze-dried mango, which is equivalent to about one-half of a fresh mango (about 100 grams), may help lower blood sugar in obese individuals," explained Edralin Lucas Ph.D., associate professor of nutritional sciences at Oklahoma State University, College of Human Sciences and lead study author.
Olive oil
Olive oil, rich in the same monounsaturated fat found in avocados, prevents not only belly fat accumulation, but also insulin resistance.
Posted by coffetimeforus at 10:12 AM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: HEALTH
Friday, July 15, 2016
Hand Massage
When you often think of a stress releasing massage, we usually think of the head and shoulders as that’s mostly the place people store stress. But the Hands are the most commonly used part of the body, and need some love too.
Reflexology is a a style of massage that gets your body’s Chi or life energy flowing in the way it naturally should be. Reflexology includes the Hands, Feet and Ears with each set of appendages having a pressure point for each organ and part o the body.
Whenever you are feeling tired burnt out or overly stressed. Step back and take a few minutes to give yourself a reliving and energy inducing massage in a few quick minutes. The key is to relax for how ever long you are able. Start with either your thumb a stick a golf ball a rock or even the round smooth edge of a table desk or something solid. Press into you your hand like your pressing into silly puddy slow solid and firm not to fast and jerky, slow and steady; smooth calm collected and relaxed. Your transferring positive relaxing energizing energy into yourself. Press and circle press and circle press and circle. If you feel tender spots your doing it correctly. When you feel the tender spots. Press and circle press and circle press and circle. Calm smooth easy.
Posted by coffetimeforus at 5:13 AM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: HEALTH
Thursday, July 14, 2016
Butt Lift Workout
Lift and tone your butt in five minutes with these exercises.
Steps for the butt lift workout:
Squat
Stand with feet hip-width separately and abs trail in. Drop your shoulders and heft your chest and hook your knees and squat down plunge your butt out. Stand back up and heft your right leg beyond you while nip your right butt cheek and outstretch arms forward. Lower your leg and arms and interchange sides and replicate and do 20 reps.
Pointed Butt Lift
Get downward on your hands and knees and take hold of a solo dumbbell and lay it ahead of your left knee. Hoist your left leg up so that your left thigh is comparable to the floor and your toes pointed as the crow flies up and this is the opening position and next, hoist your left leg up as lofty as you can so that you experience a nice tight widen in your butt. Lower back down to preliminary position and this completes one rep. Do for 30 secs for both legs.
Heel Kick
Stay in above position and but get on your forearms. Kick your heel on the floor and make sure that your back stays straight and that your hips don’t turn around outwards. Bring leg upward in the air and kick back on the floor again. Do for 30 secs for both legs.
Fire Hydrants
Stay in above position but get on your palms. Elbows should be a little bent and back should be equivalent to the earth, not arched or influenced downward. Maintenance the kneeling point raise left leg out to the side, similar to the ground. Maintain for another and unhurriedly revisit to the preliminary position. Finish the movement with one leg for 30 secs then carry on another leg for 30 secs.
Bridge
As you do this, make certain to tilt your pelvis and to draw your belly button on the way to your spine to slot in your abs. Press your feet into the floor and haul up your hips to the ceiling as lofty as is contented. Think of it as thrilling your hips to the firmament or the ceiling. As you lift, you should grasp your buttocks to formulate them extra firm, but not become firm them too much. Do not let them splay out to the side or you can damage your knees and your rear. Keep your shoulders on the base to guard your neck. Remember to pull your shoulders into the mat as you lift up and seize the pose for five full breaths and liberate back to the start point.
Single Legged Bridge
Sprawl on your back with your knees bent and your feet flat on the floor near your butt and hip-width separately. Keeping your knees in line, extend one leg upward in the air. Now push your hips up toward the ceiling as high as you can go. get down slowly on the the floor. do these moves for 30 secs then switch the leg and carry on for another 30 secs.
Posted by coffetimeforus at 5:13 AM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: DIET & FITNESS
Tuesday, July 12, 2016
Model Ana Beatriz Barros weds Egyptian tycoon Karim El Chiaty in Mykonos
Brazilian supermodel Ana Beatriz Barros married Egyptian businessman Karim El Chiaty. The wedding took place on the Greek island of Mykonos.
The beautiful bride wore a wedding dress by Valentino while taking an oath of eternal love ceremony at the idyllic island.
Isabeli Fontana and Alessandra Ambrosio were among the bridesmaids.
Source: http://www.frivolette.com/lifestyle/travel/victoria-s-secret-angel-ana-beatriz-barros-married-egyptian-businessman-karim-el-chaiten-on-the-greek-island-of-mykonos
Alessandra Ambrosio both children, Anja and Noah, witnessed the first moments of married life of the newlyweds.
Ana Beatriz Barros (Born May 29, 1982, Itabira, Brazil) is Brazilian supermodel, known as one of the angels of Victoria's Secret
Born in the small town of Itabira, Minas Gerais, Brazil. She has Spainish, Italian and Portuguese blood.
Later the family moved to Rio de Janeiro, where Ana Beatriz spent her childhood. He currently lives in New York, USA.
Ana Beatriz Barros and Karim El Chiaty met in 2014 through mutual friends. Last year, the lovers got engaged.
Source: http://www.frivolette.com/lifestyle/travel/victoria-s-secret-angel-ana-beatriz-barros-married-egyptian-businessman-karim-el-chaiten-on-the-greek-island-of-mykonos
Source: http://www.frivolette.com/lifestyle/travel/victoria-s-secret-angel-ana-beatriz-barros-married-egyptian-businessman-karim-el-chaiten-on-the-greek-island-of-mykonos
Posted by coffetimeforus at 4:14 AM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: BEAUTY & FASHION
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Translate
Search This Blog
Follow by Email
Total Pageviews
Blog Archive
► 2019 (3)
► February (3)
► 2017 (114)
► September (1)
► August (1)
► July (1)
► June (9)
► May (14)
► April (13)
► March (32)
► February (22)
► January (21)
▼ 2016 (236)
► December (13)
► November (15)
► October (7)
► September (9)
► August (15)
▼ July (22)
Baking Soda And Lemon: A Miraculous Combination
31 -Jul -16 Coffee Quote
Weekend Projects Under $20
Oreo Stuffed Peppermint Cookies
27 -Jul -16 Coffee Quote
Color of Your Urine Says About Your Health
Healthy Breakfasts for Busy Mornings
Best Chocolate Chip Cookies
Full List Of Illegal Cancer-Causing Shampoos
19 -Jul -16 Coffee Quote
The Most Effective Way To Make The White Clothes W...
Blood Sugar–Lowering Foods
Hand Massage
Butt Lift Workout
Model Ana Beatriz Barros weds Egyptian tycoon Kari...
Football Darts
10 -Jul -16 Coffee Quote
HEARTBREAKING News For AC/DC Fans
Garlic Health Benefits
05 -Jul -16 Coffee Quote
How Smoking Affects The Way You Look
Pair Up and Slim Down: The Couple Workout
► June (20)
► May (13)
► April (19)
► March (67)
► February (36)
Popular Posts
Love Quotes for Valentine’s Day
~ Love surrounds us like light. We are warmed by the charm of our devotion. ~ Its does sounds funny, but yes, if a kiss could t...
Home Remedies for Sore, Cracked and Stinky Feet
Cracked heels and blackened feet can happen to anyone. Normally, the shoes that you wear, particularly during the hot and dry summer mont...
Laundry Basket Turned Into Strawberry Planter
Turn your laundry basket into a strawberry planter. Check your local thrift or dollar store if you don't have an old basket a...
Creative Ideas and Tutorials
It's Sunday and you have nothing to do, now you can use your extra free time to do something creative. Here are some inter...
Jennifer Lopez rocks six outfits in 24 hours
Jennifer Lopez continues the promotional tour for the series "Shades of Blue", which means a new stage of fashion marathon. ...
Watermark theme. Powered by Blogger.