American CPR Training™ | August 2016 / American CPR
JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
Welcome to AmericanCPR.com!
Menu Search
Account
Cart 0
Recently added item(s) ×
You have no items in your shopping cart.
Training
Instant Quote for Your Class
Client & Student Reviews
Safety Training Topics
CPR
First Aid
AED
BBP
Forklift
OSHA & Other Safety Topics
Just You? Attend a Class...
Teach
Shop
AED Products
Bandages & First Aid
CPR Products
Disaster, Survival, Preparation
First Aid Kits
First Aid Stations & Cabinets
Health/Medical Education
Miscellaneous Supplies
Safety Books, CDs, Videos
SALES & SPECIAL OFFERS!
Shop by Brand
About
The American CPR Training™ Story
The People of American CPR Training™
American CPR Training™ Clients
Blog
Contact ACT™
Free Video
Instant Training Quote
Search:
Search
My Account
My Wishlist
My Cart
Checkout
Register
Log In
Fast Order
Home /
Blog /
Archives /
August 2016
×
Price:
Actual Price:
Add to Cart
Our price is lower than the manufacturer's "minimum advertised price." As a result, we cannot show you the price in catalog or the product page.
You have no obligation to purchase the product once you know the price. You can simply remove the item from your cart.
Our price is lower than the manufacturer's "minimum advertised price." As a result, we cannot show you the price in catalog or the product page.
You have no obligation to purchase the product once you know the price. You can simply remove the item from your cart.
Monthly Archives: August 2016
Positivity
Perhaps nothing else is quite as important when comes to determining your trajectory. While it can be tempting to slip into negative thoughts, it is up to us to actively quiet
them. One of the best ways to do this is to listen to what you're telling yourself, as if you were telling it to someone else. When you take a step back, it will probably surprise you.
Most of us would never dare speak to someone else the way we speak to ourselves. It is also important to stop judging yourself so harshly. Low self-esteem often stems from harsh and
merciless self-judgement. Ask others how they see you. You may be surprised! Finally, accept your imperfections and move forward! With a little work you will be on your way to a more
positive you! Learn more at Inc:
How to Tame the Negative Talk in Your Mind
What you tell yourself every day will either lift you up or tear you down.
This entry was posted in Instructors Corner and tagged attitude, success on August 31, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
West Nile
We shared important concerns about Mosquitoes in a recent post, and how they deliver many diseases to humans. While at present there is a huge focus on Zika (largely because it gets good ratings so the media is all over the matter) more relevant and prevalent at present in the US is West Nile Virus. Know about West nile, and protect against it.
From the CDC:
Don’t let mosquitoes wreck your summer fun. Protect yourself and your family from mosquito bites.
Summertime means mosquitoes and West Nile virus season. An infected mosquito bite can make you or a family member sick with West Nile virus. Stay healthy this summer. Take steps to avoid mosquito bites, especially in from evening to morning when the mosquitoes that spread West Nile virus are most active.
How many people get sick with West Nile virus?
Nearly 44,000 cases of West Nile virus disease (West Nile virus) have been reported in the United States since 1999. Of those, over 20,000 people have had infections of the brain or spinal cord and more than 1,900 people have died. Many more cases of illness are not reported to CDC.
Figure 1. West Nile virus activity by state in the United States, 2016. View Map.
See detailed case counts by state for 2015[104 KB].
Figure 2. West Nile virus neurologic disease incidence reported to ArboNET by state in the United States, 2016. View Map.
What are the risks?
In 2015, 44 states and the District of Columbia in the continental United States have reported 2,175 cases of West Nile virus in people. Depending on the year, some states report more West Nile cases than others. Some areas of the United States also report cases of other viruses spread by mosquitoes, such as eastern equine encephalitis virus or La Crosse encephalitis virus.
Though anyone can get infected with West Nile virus, some people are at higher risk for infection of the brain or spinal cord. For example, people over the age of 50 are at higher risk for encephalitis (swelling of the brain).
What are the symptoms of a West Nile virus infection?
No symptoms in most people
Most people (70-80%) who become infected with West Nile virus do not have any symptoms.
Fever in some people
About 1 in 5 people who are infected will develop a fever with other symptoms such as headache, body aches, joint pains, vomiting, diarrhea, or rash. Most people with this type of West Nile virus recover completely, but feeling tired and weak can last for weeks to months.
Severe symptoms in a few people
Less than 1% of people who are infected will develop a serious neurologic illness such as encephalitis or meningitis (inflammation of the lining of the brain and spinal cord). The symptoms of neurologic illness can include headache, high fever, neck stiffness, disorientation, coma, tremors, seizures, or paralysis. See your healthcare provider if you think you have symptoms of West Nile virus.
Why risk a severe illness this summer? Take steps to avoid West Nile virus infection.
How do I protect myself from West Nile virus?
There is no vaccine to prevent West Nile virus infection.
The best way to prevent diseases spread by mosquitoes is to protect yourself and your family from mosquito bites.
Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants.
Stay in places with air conditioning and window and door screens to keep mosquitoes outside.
Treat your clothing and gear with permethrin or buy pre-treated items.
Use Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-registered insect repellents.
Always follow the product label instructions.
When used as directed, these insect repellents are proven safe and effective even for pregnant and breastfeeding women.
Do not use insect repellents on babies younger than 2 months old.
Do not use products containing oil of lemon eucalyptus or para-menthane-diol on children younger than 3 years old.
Mosquito netting can be used to cover babies younger than 2 months old in carriers, strollers, or cribs to protect them from mosquito bites.
Sleep under a mosquito bed net if air conditioned or screened rooms are not available or if sleeping outdoors.
If you have a baby or child:
Do not use insect repellent on babies younger than 2 months old.
Do not use products containing oil of lemon eucalyptus or para-menthane-diol on children younger than 3 years old.
Dress your child in clothing that covers arms and legs.
Cover crib, stroller, and baby carrier with mosquito netting.
Do not apply insect repellent onto a child's hands, eyes, mouth, and cut or irritated skin.
Adults: Spray insect repellent onto your hands and then apply to a child's face.
More Information
Information on West Nile virus from CDC.
Information on insect repellent use and effectiveness from the EPA.
The American Academy of Microbiology (AAM) comprehensive report published in 2013 called West Nile virus FAQ[1.58 MB]
This entry was posted in Health News and tagged mosquito, west nile virus, wnv on August 30, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
Sepsis
The most basic precepts in first aid treatment of minor injuries are to "clean, treat, protect". This helps a wound to heal, and as important - these steps help avoid infection or sepsis, which is a life-threatening complication of an infection.
Sepsis can be deadly:
• Sepsis is the body’s overwhelming and life-threatening response to an infection.
• Sepsis begins outside the hospital for nearly 80% of patients, yet 7 in 10 patients with sepsis had recently used healthcare services or had chronic diseases requiring frequent medical care.
There are over 200,000 cases of Sepsis in the USA each year!
Sepsis occurs when chemicals released in the bloodstream to fight an infection trigger inflammation throughout the body. This can cause a cascade of changes that damage multiple organ systems, leading them to fail, sometimes even resulting in death.
Symptoms include fever, difficulty breathing, low blood pressure, fast heart rate, and mental confusion.
Treatment includes antibiotics and intravenous fluids.
Sepsis is a complication caused by the body’s overwhelming and life-threatening response to infection. It can lead to tissue damage, organ failure, and death. Sepsis is difficult to diagnose. It happens quickly and can be confused with other conditions early on. Sepsis is a medical emergency. Time matters. When sepsis is quickly recognized and treated, lives are saved. Healthcare providers are the critical link to preventing, recognizing, and treating sepsis.
Healthcare providers can:
Prevent infections. Follow infection control requirements (e.g., hand hygiene) and ensure patients receive recommended vaccines (e.g., flu and pneumococcal).
Educate patients and their families. Stress the need to prevent infections, manage chronic conditions, and seek care if signs of severe infection or sepsis are present.
Think sepsis. Know sepsis signs and symptoms to identify and treat patients early.
Act fast. If sepsis is suspected, order tests to determine if an infection is present, where it is, and what caused it. Start antibiotics and other medical care immediately. Document antibiotic dose, duration, and purpose.
Reassess patient management. Check patient progress frequently. Reassess antibiotic therapy 24-48 hours or sooner to change therapy as needed. Be sure the antibiotic type, dose, and duration are correct.
This entry was posted in Health / Medical Education and tagged infection, sepsis, clean, treat, protect on August 29, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
National Preparedness
National Preparedness Month begins September 1.
“Don't Wait. Communicate. Make Your Emergency Plan Today.” is the theme this year.
Get started bye reading Emergency Planning and Evacuation Procedures, Emergency Action Plan & Escape, and then start making your plan here: www.ready.gov/make-a-plan
This entry was posted in Uncategorized and tagged preparedness, disaster on August 27, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
Mosquitoes
Mosquitoes - aside from annoying, they are dangerous and carry many diseases harmful and even deadly to humans.
In and effort to help the public find reliable resources of information on Mosquito abatement, control, treatment for bites, and the like, the CDC offers a number of resources to help understand the threat and keep these bloodsuckers at bay:
Prevent Mosquito Bites
The best way to prevent Zika is to protect yourself from mosquito bites.
POTENTIAL RANGE IN US
CDC's best estimate of the potential range of Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus in the United States.
AERIAL SPRAYING
Airplanes can be used to treat very large areas with insecticides safely, quickly, and efficiently.
RESOURCES
Guidance and planning resources, mosquito information, and mosquito control resources.
INTEGRATED MOSQUITO MANAGEMENT
Uses a combination of methods to prevent and control mosquitoes that spread viruses.
FOR PROFESSIONALS
Information on surveillance and control, insecticide resistance, and disinsection.
INSECTICIDE RESISTANCE
Insecticide resistance is an overall reduction in the ability of an insecticide product to kill mosquitoes.
INSECT REPELLENT & STING RELIEF PRODUCTS
So the weather is great and you want to spend the time outside grilling and just plain lounging. Unfortunately, you live in an area where you can be eaten alive by the little critters that live outside: insects, mosquitoes etc. We have some of the top brands of insect repellent and bite relief products on the market. We want to make sure you DON'T get bit so our Ben's and Natrapel (among others) Insect replants that are all DEET free and provide up to eight hours of insect free time to enjoy. In case you did not pump on or use towelettes to put on insect repellents, those same brands also carry sting relief products in all types of delivery systems - pumps, sprays and towelettes, each having the formulated itch treatment to relieve the pain cause by swelling and itching from those critter bites.
Bug bites, though they can be small and at times are only a little bit annoying, can also become infected and painful if not treated properly. Make sure to always have some type of insect bite relief around to make sure you do not itch and scratch and make the bite become infected. You should also make sure to keep an eye on a bite that does not seem to be going away. Though you may have thought it was just an insect bite, it could end up being something a bit more serious such as a spider or tick bite. Be prepared!
This entry was posted in Uncategorized, Health News and tagged mosquito on August 22, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
CPR on a Doll
If you haven't already seen this - it's a pretty crazy story... We're please that this lawman was proactive in saving a child... and that he has CPR Training, but how creepy that it was a doll? I guess this gives a new meaning to CPR Dolls, eh? (And others, less kind might say CPR Dummy)
A reborn doll appeared so lifelike to a police officer that he tried to resuscitate it after breaking into a hot car to rescue it.
It happened in Keene, New Hampshire... a 911 call about a baby let in a hot, closed car at Wal-Mart. Responding to the scene, the officer, Jason Short broke into the car and began performing CPR on the unresponsive infant... but it was an amazingly lifelike doll, not a real child. Read more at the Washington Post.
This entry was posted in CPR Training and tagged cpr, infant, doll on August 20, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
Reading
Parking structure of Kansas City Library - Cool, eh?
There's nothing like a good book to change your perspective.
Whether you are running up against a wall or are just simply burnt out, you may be surprised by the wonders that cracking open a book can do for you. The Meditations by Marcus Aurelius and Letters from a Stoic by Seneca are two great places to start. There is something timeless about these books that is equally inspiring and informative. Don't discredit fiction, though. Books like Fight Club by Chuck Palahniuk and The Moviegoer by Walker Percy offer a unique perspective. Finally, if none of this works, try picking up a biography, like Plutarch's Lives. There is a lot to be learned from the mistakes and triumphs others have experienced in their lives, knowledge that we can implement when facing everyday challenges.
This entry was posted in Odd Bits of News & Trivia and tagged reading, books on August 11, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
Let there be light...
The Chicago Cubs' history dates all the way back to 1876, and the first professional baseball game to be played at night under the lights happened on May 24, 1935. It soon became common practice for the majority of teams to hold regular night games as playing at night greatly increased attendance. So when would you guess that the Cubs played their first night game? 1940? 1952? 1960? If your guess was 1988, you are either really lucky, psychic or a huge baseball fan.
That's right. On August 8, 1988, the Chicago Cubs turned on the lights at Wrigley Field to take on the Philadelphia Phillies. The team chose 91-year-old Cubs fan Harry Grossman to do the honors of flipping the switch. As he did, he proclaimed, "Let there be light." But even today who is the only major league baseball team to play the majority of its home games during the day? You guessed it. The Chicago Cubs.
What is the most common emergency?
BLACKOUT SURVIVAL KITS
See our Blackout Survival Kits
Blackouts are scary times, no matter whether you are a kid or an adult trying to make sure to keep your kids safe during a general blackout or one caused by a natural occurrence. In case of large scale blackouts or power outages, our Guardian kits will provide you with everything you need. Containing battery-free dynamo lighting sources, you can illuminate an evacuation route or a dark house with ease.
Some tips on how to make a power outage bearable:
Cook your perishable foods. If the temperature rises, take anything out of the refrigerator that might spoil and prepare to cook it or consume it before it warms up. Eat perishables before spoilage can occur.
Have stable foods that don't require refrigeration. Those that do not require cooking are even better. Canned meats, fish, soups, vegetables, and juices will work .
Have a back-up method of heating food and water. A camping stove is ideal (and be sure to know how to use it safely — see warnings). A barbecue grill will work quite well, but do not bring it into the house.
This entry was posted in Disaster, Survival, Preparation and tagged blackout on August 9, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
Friendship
Today is Friendship Day... reach out to yours... especially those you've been estranged from.
Human beings are social creatures and have always valued the importance of friends in their lives. To celebrate this noble feeling it was deemed fit to have a day dedicated to friends and friendship. Accordingly, first Sunday of August was declared as a holiday in US in honor of friends by a Proclamation made by US Congress in 1935. Since then, World Friendship Day is being celebrated every year on the first Sunday in the month of August.
This entry was posted in Odd Bits of News & Trivia on August 7, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
Hiroshima Peace Day
Today is Hiroshima Peace Day... this brings mixed images of horror and love to mind.
This entry was posted in Odd Bits of News & Trivia on August 6, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
1-10 of 12
Page:
1
2
Next
Search
Search
Recent Posts
CPR Instructors scramble to meet new AHA Requirements by January 31
It's the American CPR Training™ YEAR-END BLOWOUT
GIVE THE GIFT OF LIFE THIS HOLIDAY SEASON!
Prestan Rolls Out Major Upgrade to Professional AED Trainer!
#HappyHalloween
Recent Comments
admin@peak on New CPR Guidelines
I was reading this on Frostbite
my response on Frostbite
Gerald King on New CPR Guidelines
Jason Profit on National Preparedness
Categories
AED (Automated External Defibrillators)
AED Training
Bandages and First Aid
BBP Training
Bleeding Control
Child Safety
CPR Products
CPR Training
Disaster, Survival, Preparation
Emergency Preparedness
Fire & Burn Safety
First Aid Training
Forklift Training
Health / Medical Education
Health News
Instructors Corner
Miscellaneous Supplies
Odd Bits of News & Trivia
OSHA and Other Safety Training
Safety Books, CDs, Videos
Sales and Special Offers
Shop by Brand
Uncategorized
Archives
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
February 2018
December 2017
November 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
Meta
Entries RSS
WordPress.org
Magento
Magento WordPress Integration
Magento Extensions
Newsletter
Sign Up for Our Newsletter:
Subscribe
Company
About Us
Contact Us
Customer Service
Privacy Policy
Shipping & Returns
Quick Links
Site Map
Search Terms
Advanced Search
Account
My Account
Orders and Returns
American CPR.com | 760-944-9755 | Hours: 8AM – 5PM PT | 565 Westlake St., Suite 100 Encinitas, CA 92024
Copyright ©1993 - - American CPR - All rights reserved.
*Email Address
*Password
What's this?
Close
Checking "Remember Me" will let you access your shopping cart on this computer when you are logged out
Close
Register Forgot?
Login
Close Window
Continue shopping