Can You Become Addicted to Cannabis? • Green Rush Daily
News
Guides
Products
Health
Women
Cultivation
Entertainment
Politics
Science
Strains
Technology
Videos
Connect with us
Green Rush Daily
News
New Poll Reveals 84 Percent of Americans Support Legal Marijuana
Patent for Method Removing Pesticides from Cannabis Oil Filed
New York Police Issue Warning After Finding Fentanyl Laced Marijuana
From Banning Smokables to Limiting THC: Medical Marijuana in Florida
New Bill Protects Federal Benefits of Veterans that use Marijuana
Guides
11 Ways to Work in the Cannabis Industry
Cannabis-Infused Gifts for Valentine’s Day
Changes to Expect After Canada Federally Legalizes Cannabis
16 Ways To Work In The Cannabis Industry Without Touching The Plant
Can Visiting Patients Actually Purchase Medical Marijuana In Hawaii?
Products
Health
Research Shows CBD can Help Transmit Medicines to the Brain
Data Reveals Younger Generations now Prefer Cannabis over Alcohol
Study Finds Cannabis Users may need more Anesthesia for Procedures
Vast Majority of Cannabis from Madrid Contains Human Fecal Matter
Grad Students Designed a Machine that Extracts Cannabis Oil at Home
Women
New Report Shows Last Year Women Bought Twice as Much Cannabis
9 Celebs Investing in the Cannabis Industry
Women Fight For Equal Representation Before Legalization In Illinois
11 Women-Run Weed Companies To Watch
Pregnant Women Are Smoking More Blunts And Fewer Cigarettes
Can You Become Addicted to Cannabis?
Share
Tweet
Scott Storch Shares How Cocaine Addiction Ruined His Weed Business
Is Weed Addictive?
10 Reasons Why You Should Smoke Weed And Drink Less
OMG Arguments To Have With Your Anti-Cannabis Parents
Health
Home » Health » Can You Become Addicted to Cannabis?
Can You Become Addicted to Cannabis?
Can you become addicted to cannabis? To understand marijuana addiction, we first have to figure out what exactly it means to be addicted.
By
Casey Riley
Published on 11/03/2016
Share
Tweet
Cannabis is one of the most widely used substances in the world. The fact that it’s easy to come by, relatively safe, and has so many medicinal uses are all undoubtedly factors for its popularity. And, of course, the most obvious reason people love marijuana: it gets you high. Like with any other mind-altering substance, the question of can you become addicted to cannabis comes into play. Proponents of the plant downplay or outright deny that it’s addictive at all. Those more critical say that it’s just as addictive as any other ‘hardcore’ drug out there, and should be avoided at all costs.
In truth, the answer lies somewhere in the middle. While marijuana use can indeed lead to addiction, it is both rarer and less harmful than addiction to any other comparable substance like tobacco or cocaine. To understand marijuana addiction, we first have to figure out what exactly it means to be addicted.
Marijuana Addiction vs. Dependence
According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, problematic cannabis use is described as “marijuana use disorder.” This disorder is characterized by one of two things: marijuana dependence and marijuana addiction.
Dependence occurs when someone experiences withdrawal symptoms when they’re not using the drug. In the case of marijuana, frequent use leads the body to adapt by making fewer of its own cannabinoids. So when marijuana is no longer present, the amount of cannabinoids in the body is under the baseline.
Because cannabinoids perform many essential functions in the brain, their absence can lead to withdrawal symptoms. These include:
Irritability
Sleep difficulties
Decreased appetite
Restlessness
Physical discomfort
It’s important to note that dependence to a drug like marijuana does not in itself constitute a problem or addiction. The National Institute on Drug Abuse makes that clear, pointing out that even using prescription medications as directed can also lead to dependence. So despite marijuana’s potential withdrawal symptoms, most users have no difficulty quitting anyway.
Signs You’re Addicted To Cannabis
It is those who can’t stop that exhibit a marijuana addiction. Addiction is characterized by this inability to stop using the drug despite a litany of negative consequences. According to the DSM-5, these include:
Wanting to stop but being unable
Spending excessive time trying to get marijuana
Failing to meet work, school, or family obligations
Use of marijuana negatively affecting relationships
Using despite physical or psychological problems
Fortunately, addiction to marijuana is much less common than a physical dependence on it. So rare is marijuana addiction, in fact, that it’s virtually the least addictive substance out there.
Marijuana is the Least Addictive
When compared to other drugs commonly spoken about in the same vein as cannabis, marijuana is the least addictive. According to this study published by the APA, 15.4% of people who try alcohol will become addicted. That number steadily rises when naming other drugs: 16.7% for cocaine, 23.1% for heroin, and 31.9% for tobacco.
Compare that to only 9.1% for cannabis, and the hysteria around the addictive potential of marijuana suddenly seems bizarre. Not only is it less addictive than other popular illicit drugs, but it’s less addictive than two of the most common legal drugs available.
And unlike alcohol, tobacco, cocaine, and heroin, marijuana abuse alone has never once resulted in someone’s death. So not only is it less addictive, but it is also less harmful than other drugs.
Can You Become Addicted To Cannabis?
Yes, you can become addicted to cannabis. But it’s more likely that you’ll get addicted to any other drug that you try. In short, the danger of marijuana addiction is often overblown. Studies have shown that it’s exceedingly rare, and the vast majority of people have no problem enjoying the plant recreationally.
Continue Reading
You may also like...
Scott Storch Shares How Cocaine Addiction Ruined His Weed Business
Is Weed Addictive?
10 Reasons Why You Should Smoke Weed And Drink Less
OMG Arguments To Have With Your Anti-Cannabis Parents
Related Topics:Addiction, Dependence
More in Health
Studies
Research Shows CBD can Help Transmit Medicines to the Brain
By Lissett Fun 04/19/2019
The study found CBD could help medicines reach the brain that normally couldn't.
Studies
Data Reveals Younger Generations now Prefer Cannabis over Alcohol
By Natan Ponieman 04/18/2019
Most survey participants look at cannabis as a safer alternative.
Science
Study Finds Cannabis Users may need more Anesthesia for Procedures
By Lissett Fun 04/15/2019
To make it through medical procedures.
Health
Vast Majority of Cannabis from Madrid Contains Human Fecal Matter
By Adam Drury 04/02/2019
Hash sold on the streets of Madrid is so contaminated with human fecal bacteria, researchers said...
Most Read
Celebs
Seth Rogen is Launching a Cannabis Company
Health
Vast Majority of Cannabis from Madrid Contains Human Fecal Matter
Business
Grad Students Designed a Machine that Extracts Cannabis Oil at Home
World
Over 34,000 Medical Marijuana Patients Info Leaked in Data Breach
About
Contact
Contribute
Terms
Privacy
Copyright © 2018 Green Rush Daily
To Top