Our Blog
Blog Home
Browse the Archives February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 February 2017
978-443-0801
323 Boston Post Road Sudbury, MA 01776
Nitrous Oxide
February 27th, 2018
Nitrous oxide is a gaseous sedative that’s inhaled through a small mask placed over the nose. Often referred to as laughing gas — because of the euphoric effects it produces — nitrous is used in our Sudbury office for its anesthetic/analgesic properties.
It will make it so you don’t feel the pain of dental treatment or have an experience that some patients may find traumatic.
Nitrous oxide’s use in the dental field dates back to about the mid-1800s, but when it was introduced, practitioners didn’t understand the need to add oxygen. These days all nitrous oxide is administered with at least 30% oxygen for safety (so it forms the compound N2O-O2).
If you need any form of dental treatment, Dr. Du and Dr. Liu may find it necessary to administer nitrous oxide. Some of the effects you may experience while you’re sedated include:
Lightheadedness, tingling in the arms and legs, followed by a warm or comforting sensation
A euphoric feeling or feeling like you are floating
Inability to keep your eyes open, so it seems as if you’re asleep
If at any time you feel uncomfortable, irritated, or sick, let Dr. Du and Dr. Liu know, so the percentage of nitrous oxide being used can be adjusted. The effects dissipate quickly once you return to breathing regular air.
It’s best to be informed about all aspects of your dental treatment before you arrive. There are alternatives to nitrous oxide, so if you’re at all concerned, please don’t hesitate to ask questions about other options for sedation.
Analgesic (numbing) injections can often be used locally at the surgical site. We’ll find what works best for your particular case.
Older Entries
Chewing Gum: Fact and Fiction
February 20th, 2018
Remember all the things your parents would tell you when you were growing up to scare you away from doing something? Like how lying might make your nose grow, misbehaving meant you wouldn’t get money from the tooth fairy, and swallowed chewing gum would build up in your stomach and stay there for years?
Maybe that last one stayed with you well beyond your teens, and occurred to you every time you accidentally (or purposely) swallowed a piece of gum. We don’t blame you. It’s a scary thought.
But is it true?
We hate to take the fun out of parental discipline, but swallowing a piece of chewing gum is pretty much like swallowing any other piece of food. It will move right through your digestive system with no danger of getting stuck for months, let alone seven years.
This doesn’t mean you should start swallowing all your gum from now on, but if it happens accidentally now and then, there’s no need to panic.
Another common gum myth is that sugar-free gum can help you lose weight. Although it is preferable to choose sugar-free gum over the extra-sweet variety, no studies have show that sugar-free gum will help you lose weight.
If you pop a piece of gum in your mouth after dinner to avoid dessert, it could help you avoid eating a few extra calories every day. But the consumption of sugar-free gum without any other effort will not help you shed pounds.
If you really enjoy chewing gum, we strongly encourage you to select sugarless gum, because it lowers your risk for cavities. Many brands of sugarless gum contain xylitol, a natural sweetener that can, in fact, help fight bacteria that cause cavities and rinse away plaque.
So if you can’t kick the gum habit altogether, sugar-free is definitely the way to go!
If you have any questions about chewing gum, feel free to contact Dr. Du and Dr. Liu at our Sudbury office.
Older Entries
The Transformation of Valentine’s Day
February 13th, 2018
Did you know the actions leading to the beginnings of Valentine’s Day were actually centered on the avoidance of war? A Catholic priest named Valentine defied the orders of the Emperor Claudius II and secretly married young men and their brides after the emperor had declared it illegal because only single, young men could be sent to war. Rather than lose potential soldiers to fight his war, Claudius attempted to hoard them by proclaiming marriage illegal.
Valentine continued to marry young couples anyway and, eventually, was put to death for it in 270 AD. Before his death, he sent a letter to a secret love and signed it “From your Valentine”. Nearly 1,800 years later, people are still signing letters and cards in this manner. This year, carry on the tradition started long ago, while adding your own twist. Here are a few suggestions.
Simple and Creative Valentine’s Day Ideas
Memorialize it with a Photo. Couples often have photos taken around Christmas, but Valentine’s Day photos allow you to capitalize on romance. Famous couple Julia Child and her husband, Paul, had their picture taken together every Valentine’s Day and included their sense of humor with silly props.
Return to Your First Date Location. Even if your first date together was at a local hotdog stand, its sentimental value can make it a fun part of your Valentine’s Day agenda. Be creative and make a treasure hunt with clues that lead your partner to the original date location, where you can express your love with flowers or a gift.
“From Your Valentine” Messages. Deliver your message in a creative way to make this Valentine’s Day stand out from the others. Bake your partner’s favorite treat and write a message on it with a tube of icing, or draw a note on the steamed up mirror so it shows up when your partner takes a shower.
Although Valentine’s Day is a day to celebrate love, it doesn’t have to be a special day only for couples. If you’re single, use this special day to shower yourself with love, because you’re worth it! After all, the priest Valentine believed so strongly in the sanctity of love that he was willing to risk his life for it. Whether you’re in a relationship or single, young or old, romantic or not, Valentine’s Day is for you. Happy Valentine’s Day from the dentist office of Dr. Du and Dr. Liu.
Older Entries
Should Adults Continue Fluoride Treatments?
February 6th, 2018
Many adults wonder if they should continue to receive fluoride treatments. Our team at Sudbury Dental Smile Center wants to set the record straight about the usefulness of fluoride treatment for adults.
There are several reasons fluoride treatments could be beneficial to you as a grownup. If you have a high risk for cavities, topical fluoride applications can cut down on that risk.
If you’re experiencing gum recession that’s softening your enamel, fluoride treatments can slow down that process. Fluoride treatments may also protect expensive restorative work on crowns or bridges that may be adversely affected by plaque.
In addition, fluoride can also protect teeth in adults who have orthodontic braces or who sometimes neglect to keep up with daily oral hygiene regimens such as flossing and using mouthwash.
Do you have sensitive teeth? Consuming foods that are highly acidic or using teeth-whitening products can lead to irritated gums. Fluoride treatments remineralize your enamel and reduce sensitivity.
If you’ve undergone radiation treatment for cancer, fluoride can help restore any dry-mouth damage that may have developed during that time. Saliva acts as a buffer against the foods we eat, and without enough of it you may be more likely to get cavities.
In general, fluoride treatments are not always necessary for adults, but they can be beneficial to your overall oral hygiene depending on your situation. If you fall into one of the general areas listed above, ask about a fluoride treatment during your next visit at our Sudbury office.
We can also go over your options to treat other issues you may experience in terms of your oral health. Until then, make sure to take care of your teeth properly and use toothpaste or mouthwash that contains fluoride on a regular basis.
Older Entries
Blog by Sesame 24-7™