Heart Disease - Fish Oil Capsules and Supplementation for Heart Disease: The Benefits and Side Effects - MedHelp
Communities
Expert Forums
People
Full Site
Login
Signup
Communities
Information
Sign in
Diabetes
Type 1
Type 2
Prevention
General Health
Diet and Fitness
Women's Health
Men's Health
Heart
Heart Disease
Heart Rhythm
High Blood Pressure
Pregnancy
Pregnancy
35+ years old
Mental Health
Mental Health Issues
Anxiety
Depression
All Communities »
Diabetes
Pregnancy
Women's Health
Diet and Fitness
Heart Disease
Mental Health
Be Your Healthiest
Subscribe to MedHelp's free newsletter for Community Support, Experience, and Guidance.
No, Thanks
By subscribing, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
Heart Disease
Information, Symptoms, Treatments and Resources
Overview
Posts
Articles
User Journals
Fish Oil Capsules and Supplementation for Heart Disease: The Benefits and Side Effects
Rating
My Rating:
3 ratings
5 stars (3)
4 stars (0)
3 stars (0)
2 stars (0)
1 stars (0)
Email
Email this page to a friend
Friend's Email:
Your Name:
Your Email:
Enter the code shown:
Submitting
Send Email
By Subrata Kar, D.O. and Richard Webel, MD
Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) found in fish oil have been reported to reduce the risk of heart disease (cardiovascular disease). A number of studies have shown a reduction in fatal and non-fatal heart attacks, stroke, heart disease, and death.1 Fish oil (PUFAs) also have beneficial effects in the reduction of death following a heart attack.2
Sources of Fish Oil
Daily consumption of fish oil from either fish or fish oil supplements may be beneficial in patients with heart disease.3,4 Oily fish, such as salmon, tuna, sardines, herring, and mackerel provide natural source of fish oil.4 However, the consumption of oily fish may be preferred in comparison to the intake of fish oil supplements because oily fish provides Vitamin D, selenium, and naturally occurring antioxidants which are not found in fish oil supplements.3
Clinical trials have shown that fish oil may reduce total mortality by as much as 20-50 percent in doses of 0.85 to 4.0 grams/day after a duration of 12 to 42 months.2 Larger doses of 3 to 4 grams per day of fish oil decreases triglycerides which provide an energy source and are components of cholesterol. The Food and Drug Administration has approved Lovaza (formerly Omacor), a highly purified form of PUFAs, for individuals with severely elevated cholesterol (hyperlipidemia) at a dose of 4 grams/daily.3
Effects on Cholesterol
PUFAs are essential fatty acids, hence, they cannot be synthesized by humans. Subsequently, these omega-3 fatty acids must be obtained through diet or fish oil supplements.5 PUFAs may lower triglycerides by 20 to 50 percent through reduction of triglyceride production and they may increase good cholesterol (HDL) by 9 percent.6,7
PUFAs have been shown to reduce cholesterol buildup.8 PUFAs also display antioxidant properties which improve blood vessel function and may contribute to the beneficial effects against cholesterol buildup in the arteries of the heart.
PUFA Associated Side Effects
PUFAs are overall safe medications which are well tolerated by many individuals. Common side effects include nausea, gastrointestinal distress, and belching.4 Other less frequent effects include bloating, worsening of blood sugar control, and bleeding.9,10 These side effects may occur at doses greater than 2 grams/day.11 PUFAs do not interact with statins (cholesterol lowering medications) to cause a very rare, but dangerous side effect known as rhabdomyolysis (muscle damage causing kidney failure). PUFAs used in combination with statins do not cause muscle weakness, muscle aches, or muscle cramping. The use of PUFAs with fibrates (triglyceride lowering medication) is not known to cause rhabdomyolysis. Therefore, PUFAs can be used as combination therapy with statins or fibrates to improve cholesterol levels. No known liver, muscle, or renal toxicity has been reported. PUFAs may be safely used in combination with other cholesterol lowering medications such as statins to lower triglyceride levels.10 They may also provide beneficial effects after a heart attack.12 However, some studies have not shown a benefit in heart disease. Thus, further clinical research is necessary before general recommendations can be advised for all individuals.
Conclusions
PUFAs have cardiovascular benefits with a possible reduction in the incidence of death from heart disease. Since PUFAs have with minimal side effects, it may be considered in combination with other medical therapy for heart disease as recommended by your physician. Patients who are intolerant to statins because of muscle aches, muscle weakness, or other side effects may benefit from PUFA consumption for cholesterol reduction. However, some studies have shown no beneficial effects of PUFAs for heart disease. Consequently, the decision to start PUFAs for heart disease protection should be discussed with your heart doctor (Cardiologist) or Primary Care Physician so an informed and individualized decision can be made based upon your health.
Editor's note: This article is part of a special series brought to you by Missouri Medicine, the Medical Journal of the Missouri State Medical Association (MSMA). MedHelp, Missouri Medicine, and MSMA are collaborating to educate and empower health consumers by making the latest scientific studies and medical research available to the public. Learn more about MSMA and see more from Missouri Medicine.
This is a summary of the article "Fish Oil Capsules and Supplementation for Heart Disease: The Benefits and Side Effects" by Subrata Kar, D.O. and Richard Webel, MD, which was originally published in the April/May 2012 issue of Missouri Medicine. The full article is available here.
See also:
Do you use fish oil for heart health? Talk about it in our vitamins and supplements community!
Dabigatran vs Warfarin: Which is the better blood thinner?
Why medical marijuana may not be the best idea
Is coffee good for your health?
Don't abandon the PSA test for prostate cancer screening, physicians urge
Autism and the MMR Vaccine: How physicians can address parents' lingering safety concerns
Continued on next page >
1
2345
Explore More In Our Hep C Learning Center
What Is Hepatitis C?
Learn about this treatable virus.
Diagnosing Hepatitis C
Getting tested for this viral infection.
Just Diagnosed? Here’s What’s Next
3 key steps to getting on treatment.
Understanding Hepatitis C Treatment
4 steps to getting on therapy.
Your Guide to Hep C Treatments
What you need to know about Hep C drugs.
Managing Side Effects of Treatment
How the drugs might affect you.
Making Hep C Treatment a Success
These tips may up your chances of a cure.
Today's Pulse
22 Ways to Prevent a Heart Attack
How to lower your heart attack risk.
Your Healthiest 9-to-5
Set yourself up for success at work.
MedHelp
Home
About
Legal
Terms of Use
Privacy
En Español
Support
Report Abuse
Contact Us
Help
Copyright © Vitals Consumer Services LLC
The Content on this Site is presented in a summary fashion, and is intended to be used for educational and entertainment purposes only. It is not intended to be and should not be interpreted as medical advice or a diagnosis of any health or fitness problem, condition or disease; or a recommendation for a specific test, doctor, care provider, procedure, treatment plan, product, or course of action. MedHelp is not a medical or healthcare provider and your use of this Site does not create a doctor / patient relationship. We disclaim all responsibility for the professional qualifications and licensing of, and services provided by, any physician or other health providers posting on or otherwise referred to on this Site and/or any Third Party Site. Never disregard the medical advice of your physician or health professional, or delay in seeking such advice, because of something you read on this Site. We offer this Site AS IS and without any warranties. By using this Site you agree to the following Terms and Conditions. If you think you may have a medical emergency, call your physician or 911 immediately.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Full Site
By using this Site you agree to the following Terms and Conditions. If you think you may have a medical emergency, call your physician or 911 immediately.
Copyright © Vitals Consumer Services LLC