Fish Oil: The Healthy Benefits - Healthians
999-888-000-5
Enter Keywords
Search for:
Home
Disease
Myths & Facts
Health Test
Nutrition Corner
हिंदी
Health Tips
Preventive Healthcare
Healthians Blog > Health Tips > Fish Oil: The Healthy Benefits
Fish Oil: The Healthy Benefits
August 30, 2018 February 6, 2019 by Shreya Srivastava
Share this Post Share on FacebookShare on TwitterShare on Linkedin
Contributed by – Saumya Shatakshi, Senior Nutritionist
Did you know that fish oil is full nutrient goodness? All of us have been advised time and again to eat fish and inculcate the healthy benefits of fish oil in our daily diet. But, what makes fish oil so healthy? Fish oil is full of omega -3 acids, Vitamin D and A. Fish oil is healthier choice for people suffering from heart problems. The long list of health benefits is the reason behind the fast rising fame of fish oil.
Fish oil is the oil extracted from the fish tissue which is usually derived from the oily fishes like tuna, herring, mackerel etc. It helps protect from a number of diseases. Our body can not produce omega -3 fatty acid, food sources is how we replenish our omega-3 requirement. Deficiency of omega-3 fatty acids can lead to several health problems. Thus, proper intake of this healthy nutrient is necessary, fish is a major storehouse to omega-3 fatty acids.
Let us list down the important health benefits of fish oil and why should it be included in all our diets.
Health Benefits Offered By Fish Oil
It is important to understand how fish oil helps you get healthier. Several benefits are mentioned below, do not forget to cash in.
Good For Heart Health
Fish oil increases the level of good cholesterol HDL in the body and reduces the level of bad cholesterol LDL. It further lowers down the level of triglycerides that help maintain a healthy cholesterol level and take care of the heart. It also helps reduce the blood pressure levels and prevents the plaque formation in the arteries. All in all fish oil reduces the risk of heart disorders and lowers the chances of heart attack and strokes.
Relieves Arthritis
Fish oil is especially beneficial for those suffering from the discomfort in joints. It is highly recommended for people suffering from rheumatoid arthritis. With growing age bones become fragile and more prone to osteoporosis and arthritis. Several studies have proved that fish oil due to it’s healthy ingredients is really helpful in dealing with arthritis. It helps improve the bone mineral density and make your bones stronger.
Good For Your Lungs
Fish oil has anti-inflammatory properties which helps reducing asthma like symptoms and other breathing problems. It also helps boost the immune system thus reducing the risk of developing allergies. Proper intake of fish oil during pregnancy can ensure less risk of developing asthma and allergies in the child.
Prevents Cancer
Fish oil can help reduce the risk of various cancers like colon cancer, prostate cancer and breast cancer. It has become really popular as the natural treatment option for cancer treatment. The high content of omega-3 fatty acid in fish oil makes it good choice against cancer.
Helps Reduce Weight
Maintaining healthy weight can be a constant struggle for most of us. Obesity is on the high rise and a huge population around the globe is under the grasp of obesity. As it well known obesity can be the cause of several health issues and increase the risk of developing lifestyle disorders. Fish oil can be helpful in the fight against obesity. The best way to lose weight is a combination of exercises and healthy food. Combining fish oil with exercise not only helps reduce fat but also improves the heart and metabolic rate.
Help Increase Fertility
Consumption of fish oil can help improve fertility in both men and women. Omega-3 fatty acid helps improve the sperm health in men, hence improving the fertility level. Similarly, fish oil helps balance hormones, manage menstrual cycles and reduce inflammation. It can further help in the treatment of polycystic ovaries. Not just before pregnancy but intake of fish oil during pregnancy can ensure good health of both the mother and the child.
Recommended Intake
Now, that we have discussed the benefits offered by fish oil, it is important to know the recommended dosage. Fish oil includes omega-3 fatty acid which is made up of EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) AND DHA (docosahexaenoic acid). The minimum recommended intake of fish oil is 250-500mg for a healthy adult. 1tsp is 4gm of fish oil which has 41cal. Supplements of fish oil are often recommended to ensure proper intake. It best to seek professional help before starting the dose of fish oil supplements.
So, start fishing for the healthy benefits from the fish oil. A healthy dose of fish oil is good for your health.
Know Your Health Better
This post has already been read 1446 times!
Related Posts
The Oil Story
Contributed by- Saumya Shatakshi, Senior Nutritionist In a diverse country like ours, food has always…
5 Healthy Seeds You Should Eat Daily
Contributed by- Saumya Shatakshi, Senior Nutritionist Seeds are the very origin of life. These small…
7 Super-Foods for a Healthy Heart
What's good for our heart is good for our brain! A good eating habit is…
Posted in Health Tips, Nutrition Corner, Trending Article
Tagged allergy, DHA. EPA, fertility, fish oil, health benefits of fish oil, heart health, joint pains, lung health, omega 3 fatty acid, recommended dose of fish oil
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Want to book a health checkup?
Thanks for sharing your contact details. Our health adviser will call you shortly.
Leave your contact details, Our Health adviser will call you back.
Search by Category
Select Category Disease (106) Health Test (47) Health Tips (201) Myths & Facts (20) Nutrition Corner (99) Preventive Healthcare (255) Sexual Wellness (8) Trending Article (129) हिंदी (38)
Health Quote of the Day
Like Us on Facebook
Categories
Disease (106)
Health Test (47)
Health Tips (201)
Myths & Facts (20)
Nutrition Corner (99)
Preventive Healthcare (255)
Sexual Wellness (8)
Trending Article (129)
हिंदी (38)
Tags
Vitamin d high blood pressure arthritis nutrition Calcium health preventive health checkup Thyroid heart diseases blood test type 2 diabetes Diabetes Cholesterol healthy type 1 diabetes blood glucose tests Hyperthyroidism hypothyroidism
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
Contact Us
999-888-000-5
connect@healthians.com
www.healthians.com
Expedient Healthcare Marketing Pvt. Ltd.
A Wing, Floor I, A-26, Omega Center, Sector 34,
Info City, Gurgaon 122 001, Haryana, India.
Follow us on
2018 @ Healthians.com
Get a Call
Thank You for sharing your details with us.
Our Customer Care Executive will get in contact with you and would help you choose the most suitable health package.
Free call back from our Health Advisor
INSTANTLY!!
Thank You for sharing your details with us.
Our Customer Care Executive will get in contact with you and would help you choose the most suitable health package.
Free call back from our Health Advisor
INSTANTLY!!