Ruturaj Blog Desk: Does WiFi affect Health?
Ruturaj Blog Desk
Monday, June 8, 2015
Does WiFi affect Health?
Wireless Internet routers or Wi-Fi modems use dangerous electromagnetic radiation to send their signals to your computer through walls. If you have a wireless Internet router set up in your home or office (or WiMax, Blue Tooth, Air-Port Extreme, Air-Port Express, Netgear, D-Link, Belkin, Linksys and other wireless network devices) you are receiving massive EMF exposure, and living or working in a dangerous soup of radiation.
Those DSL routers and cable modems that make it so convenient to get online emit electromagnetic radiation in the low gigahertz frequency level—this level of radiation is considered by scientists and health experts as potentially dangerous. In fact, the typical home or office wireless networks transmit radio signals in the same general frequency range as the frequency that microwave ovens use to cook food.
Factors that affect
The point here is, WiFi are radio waves that may cause problems, but since there is no fixed point of your body, touching the devices all the time, the risk is quite low. If you carry your smartphone to your bed and keep it near your head at night, it may create problems due to cellular signals. But when there is some distance between your body and device, the risk becomes lesser.
Intensity of EMF Exposure
Those DSL routers and cable modems that make it so convenient to get online emit electromagnetic radiation in the low gigahertz frequency level—this level of radiation is considered by scientists and health experts as potentially dangerous. In fact, the typical home or office wireless networks transmit radio signals in the same general frequency range as the frequency that microwave ovens use to cook food.
Duration is a Factor in Wi-Fi Health Dangers
Most wi fi heath damage comes from cable modems and DSL routers don’t get turned off at night: they stay on. connecting your machines to the internet whether you’re surfing or not…and flooding your space with EMFs 24/7.
Layering Increases the Wi-Fi Health Affects
Think about when happens when you check for a network signal. Do you see the Wi-Fi signals of your neighbors? Harmful artificial EMFs are compounding all around you.
Radiation Health Effects
You may have read about a recent case that made the news: A physician noted members of her family experiencing sleep disturbances, heart palpitations, migraines, and general poor health, all starting in the same week. These electromagnetic radiation based ill health effects continued on and on. After eliminating every other possible cause, she turned off the router and they felt better. Luckily, they were not in an area swamped with EMFs from wireless technologies from nearby homes. Needless to say, the family uses a hard-wired Internet connection and the health problems haven’t come back.
WiFi Safety – small but important things that you can do at home
There is little you can do to keep yourself safe from the WiFi signals. As mentioned above, even if you close down your WiFi system, you are still exposed to those, coming from neighboring houses. The only solace here is that, since WiFi signals are coming from a longer distance, their effect would be lesser – just as the FM waves which aren’t that harmful.
I will not ask you to go wired even though it is safer than WiFi. Rather, try to keep away from the WiFi originating points and repeaters where the signals are strong enough to damage your brain over an extended period of time. If possible turn off your WiFi at nights or when you are not using them for longer durations.
Another important thing, is to reduce the duration you use WiFi. Your own WiFi is stronger in your home compared to the WiFi networks around your building. Make sure you are not spending time on the same table where the router is installed. Do not sit under repeaters for long. On devices, turn off WiFi when not using it. It will not only reduce exposure, it will save your battery also.
Remember to switch off your WiFi at night when your family sleeps.
Posted by Ruturaj Patki at 9:37 AM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Technology
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
About Me
Ruturaj Patki
Ruturaj Patki is a Software Architect, Business Consultant and Technical Writer/Trainer. He is working in the field of Software and Web solutions development for past 6+ years with an established client base located over 9 different countries. With the experience of more than 250 IT projects, Ruturaj is one of the reputed names in international circle of Software & Web Solutions development. Hobbies: Composing Music, Bird Watching, Sky Gazing & Photography.
View my complete profile
Blog Archive
Blog Archive July (1) June (4)
Simple theme. Powered by Blogger.