ES-UK
Michelle's blog
Food allergy and food intolerance, freefrom foods, electrosensitivity, this and that...
Home
About
Michelle’s cats archive
The Foodsmatter Sites
Michelle’s garden 2014-2018
ES-UK and the ASA – a war of words
05/22/2018 by Michelle Leave a Comment
And while on the subject of electrosensitivity, ES-UK, the UK’s leading electrosensitivity charity and the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) have been having a somewhat wordy battle over this poster.
In June last year the ASA received, apparently, three complaints about ES-UK’s new poster on display in railways stations. Complainants maintained that ‘the implication in the ad that electromagnetic radiation and associated products posed a risk to health was misleading and could not be substantiated.’
The ASA ‘reviewed the evidence’ and upheld the complaints. They told ES-UK to take down their posters and ‘to ensure they did not make claims that implied there was robust scientific evidence emerging that demonstrated negative human health impacts caused by mobile and cordless phones, WiFi and other electromagnetic fields or that specific medical conditions had been shown to be caused by exposure to mobile and cordless phones, WiFi and other electromagnetic fields, unless they held adequate substantiation for such claims.’
There then ensued many hundreds of pages, penned mainly by Michael Bevington who is chair of Trustees of ES-UK (and who I am sure now wishes that no one had ever come up with idea of a poster at all) and by the ASA. Michael cited the now genuinely huge numbers of studies (around 20,000 in total) linking electromagnetic radiation to a wide range of human, animal and environmental health concerns – and giving specific, referenced details of those relevant to the conditions named in the poster. The ASA referred back to much earlier and now outdated studies showing no evidence of harm.
Finally, the dispute was referred to the Independent Reviewer of the rulings of the ASA Council. He/she has, as of this month, upheld the ASA’s decision even though, among many other issues, the ASA had failed to supply a single peer-reviewed study to disprove the many hundreds of peer reviewed studies cited by ES-UK in support of the information offered in the poster.
But, one has to ask, what was the ASA’s issue?
The poster does not make any outlandish claims. Far from it. It is couched in extremely measured and non-confrontational terms:
‘More and more research is starting to show potential health risks from mobiles etc’. And then it offers a website for more information. All the icons do is to list the areas in which ‘more and more research is starting to show….’ Even the headline puts the reader totally in the driving seat – ‘It’s your call…’
If there genuinely are 20,000 studies out there (and the ASA does not dispute the numbers) which suggest the possibility of a risk to human or environmental health – they cannot all be rubbish Even if you assume that only 25% of them show a risk that would worry you, that is still 5,000 studies suggesting that there might be a problem. Might you not think that it was worth at least finding out about them? If the ASA (or their complainants) really believe that the studies are not worth the paper they are written on, then surely the best thing to do is to let the public have access to them and find that out for themselves.
The mantra these days is ‘informed choice’. If that is what the government want us all to have, we have to have access to the information so as to ‘inform’ our choices. If the ASA had a problem with the poster, rather than telling them to take it down, maybe they should have required ES-UK to include details of the research that they maintain is more credible than ES-UK’s 20,000 studies?
Afterthought.
Maybe, if the ASA would like to add to their reading list, they could have a look at the recent report from EU environmental group EKLIPSE. EKLIPSE looked at 97 studies on how EMR might affect the environment and concluded that it could ‘pose a potential risk to bird and insect orientation and plant health’ – possibly even have a role in the decline of certain bird and insect populations. Reports/comments here in the Telegraph, here in Newsweek.
Or, in an ideal moment, they could even look at ES-UK’s own selection of research material – over 2,000 studies and references listed on their site this March.
Filed Under: Electrosensitivity, Environmental Issues, Food/Health Policy Tagged With: 20000 studies showing evidence of risk from EMR, Advertising Standards Authority, ASA, ES-UK, Michael Bevington of ES-UK, Worth the risk? It's your call
Wifi smog to envelop the NHS
05/12/2016 by Michelle 2 Comments
The latest issue of the excellent ES-UK’s newsletter reprints two pieces from the Guardian last year (15th June and 21st December) reporting on the spread of wifi throughout NHS hospitals and GP surgeries.
The aim is excellent. More connectivity between hospital departments and patients’ GPs, enabling a more joined up approach to patient care – so hopefully fewer mistakes! Computers for older patients and those with dementia to help them pass the time. The potential benefits are huge. But what are the risks of bathing hospitals and GP practices in a 24/7 wifi smog?
If you accept the ever growing evidence that continuous exposure to man-made electromagnetic radiation via wifi can have detrimental health outcomes, including cancer, then surely the last thing you want to do is to subject people who are already ill (otherwise they would not be in their GP’s surgery or hospital) to further assaults on their health? Especially when the same result in terms on connectivity (indeed, more reliable connectivity than wth wifi) could be achieved by having wired connections.
Exactly the same argument of course applies to schools where the installation of wifi in all classrooms, and the insistence that all pupils should use it, is causing concerns and health issues around the country. Very sadly, it appears to have caused the death of 15-year-old Jenny Fry in June last year. (See this report in the Telegraph.)
Sadly, the UK lags behind many other countries in its acceptance of the precautionary principle as far as electromagnetic damage is concerned. This principle states that even if you do not have proof that something is harmful, if you have any suspicions that it may be, then until you have proof that it is not harmful you should be extremely careful not to put anyone (and that includes whole populations) in a situation where they could be harmed by it, if it does eventually turn out to be harmful. (Sorry, sounds convoluted, but it does make sense!) So, as far as electromagnetic radiation is concerned you should not install universal systems such as wifi and smart meters from which it is impossible for anyone to escape as long as there is any doubt at all as to their safety.
The principle has been accepted, although not without a struggle, in many other places. France has banned the use of wifi in any spaces used for under 3-year-olds and wifi is only allowed to be switched on in primary schools when it is actually being used for ‘digital educational activities’. Individual towns and schools in Italy, Spain, Canada, the US, Australia and many other places have banned or limited the used of wifi; the European council has advised that it should be banned. But not the UK….
Returning briefly the the medical use of wireless communication there is also a large question mark over the many devices that you can either wear or actually have implanted in your body which will report on your heart rate, your blood pressure, your compliance with drug regimes etc. Once again, these offer enormous benefits in terms of monitoring you health, especially valuable for those with serious health conditions, but what damage may the wireless transmission of that information from within your body, or at very least strapped onto it, also be doing?
If you want to learn more about electro sensitivity and electromagnetic radiation, check in to ES-UK’s site, to into the FoodsMatter site here, including a fascinating one day conference on the subject here.
If you are up for signing a few petitions to raise awareness and encourage the application of the precautionary principle, see this blog.
Filed Under: Electrosensitivity, Environmental Issues Tagged With: electromagnetic radiation, Electrosensitivity, ES, ES-UK, Jenny Fry, Jenny Fry kills herself because of wifi, Restrictions on use of wifi in schools, Wifi for health monitoring, wifi in French schools, wifi in schools, Wifi to blanket all hospitals
What electronic media can do to your brain – and to the rest of you!
12/22/2015 by Michelle 1 Comment
Our brains are the most adaptive organs in our bodies so constant repetition will change the way that they work. And that constant repetition applies not only to learning to play an instrument but to playing computer games.
The difference is that each interaction we get from a computer game give us a small dopamine hit. But you know what dopamine does? It makes you want more – and more – so that your brain is constantly looking for more, and releasing more dopamine in an exhausting, stimulation-seeking merry-go-round.
This was the message from Paula Healy who holds an MSc in Neuroscience and whose area of expertise is the relationship between the brain and electronic media – speaking at an electro-sensitivity meeting in the autumn.
But dopamine also affects our ability to make decisions by reducing the frontal lobe activity of the brain – the part of the brain that controls its executive function and, thereby, our impulses and our ability to self regulate and plan ahead. Meanwhile, a flickering screen continually draws our attention and encourages us to be distracted and to multi-task – something which the brain enjoys although it finds the constant release of dopamine and adrenaline stimulated by the multi-tasking exhausting.
The result is behavioural addiction – even digital dementia. Estimates suggest that 24 million children could already be addicted to computer game playing. In China they have established government funded boot camps to break children of their addictions while the Capio Nightingale Hospital in London includes ‘technology addiction ‘ in the list of conditions that they treat.
To avoid such an outcome Paula recommends:
Being selective in your use – and particularly in your children’ use – of the internet
Avoid multi-tasking
Take lots of short breaks from screens
Take time of – and laugh a lot
Exercise lots – walk, tree hug – and make sure you take your children with you
Meditate or or use mindfulness techniques
During the same meeting, Dr Erica Mallery Blythe also gave us run down on the massive amount of research that has been done around electro-sensitivity and the potential harms that it highlights. Dr Mallery Blythe coordinates a group, PHIRE, of medical doctors and specialists who gather, coordinate and critique research with the purpose of ‘improving education regarding health effects of non-ionising radiation’.
There are 10,00s of papers on electro-sensitivity, many of them funded by the industry, the results of which are inconsistent. However, it is worth noting that 70% of the independently funded studies from the 1970s onwards show credible evidence of harm. Points worth noting:
All bodies parts can be affected by radiation
All living creatures can be affected by radiation and at very low intensity
If electronic waves coincide (polarisation/forced oscillation) the effects are greater
There are high levels of calcium in all our body cells. If this oscillates as a result of electromagnetic waves, it sets up oxidative stress which known to play significant role on all bodily malfunctions.
24 hours mobile phone usage/exposure is now known to cause DNA damage
Using the Hills Criteria for Causality the connection between radiation and brain tumours satisfies six of Hills’ nine criteria.
Low intensity radiation causes leakage around brain capillaries thus breaking the blood-brain barrier
Radiation has a dose responsive effect on semen, causes ovarian damage and affected the growing foetus.
But, before you get too depressed….. There is much that you can do to protect yourself and to minimise your exposure to electromagnetic radiation. We will be having a report soon on how to get your home assessed for radiation (see RoyRiggs.co.uk) but meanwhile you can check in to ES-UK for loads of information, to the Powerwatch site for loads more information plus suggestions on what you can to reduce your exposure and a shop in which you can buy what you need. And for my own experiences of dealing with and protecting myself for radiation, see this article onto Foodsmatter site.
Filed Under: Behavioural conditions / autism, Electrosensitivity Tagged With: 24 millions children addicted to computer games, addiction to computer games, boot camps in china to break children's addiction computer games, digital dementia, dopamine release as a result of computer games, Dr Erica Mallery Blythe, ES-UK, flickering screens encourage multi-tasking, Paula Healy, PHIRE, Powerwatch, Roy Riggs electrosensitivity, technology addiction
ES update
09/23/2015 by Michelle Leave a Comment
For those of you who are interested in electrosensitivity – either because you are electrosensitive yourself or because you worry about the excessive amounts of electromagnetic radiation we are all being subjected to – a few updates.
A letter in the BMJ by ES-UK trustee Dr Andrew Tresidder responding to a discussion on the widespread deployment of wifi throughout our hospitals. It says nothing that those of us familiar with the subject do not already know – but is a good introduction for those who are less familiar with the subject. And it includes the oh-so-true warning:
History tells us that technological advance ALWAYS precedes safety considerations in all industries (see use of car safety belts, Xrays and asbestos for example), and the rollout of 24 hour transmitting wifi, cordless phones, and other technology has been on the presumption of no harm.
For those who wish to delve more deeply into the subject there is a long but fascinating report on a recent ES conference which includes discussions by Dr Dominique Belpomme, Dr Lennart Hardell, Dr Olle Johansson, Dr David Carpenter, Igor Belyaev, Dr William Rea and others. You’ll find the it on the Microwave Factor blogsite. To whet your appetite, a couple of fascinating points:
• For those of you who have had problems with histamine (and if Dr Joneja’s Q&A series is anything to go by, that is a lot of you), Dr Dominique Belpomme, who treats more than 1,200 people with EHS and/or Multiple Chemical Sensitivity, found many of his patients have abnormally high levels of histamine (a marker of inflammation), IgE antibodies (a sign of allergy), heat shock proteins HSP27 and/or HSP70 (cellular stress), S100B protein (cerebral suffering) as well as anti-O-myelin antibodies (cellular stress), and lower levels of vitamin D (metabolic anomaly) and urinary melatonin (EMFs halt production of this vital tumor-fighting hormone which regulates our biological clock). Besides the need for lowering EMF exposure as a top priority, Dr Belpomme said promising EHS treatments include using antihistamine medication, natural anti-inflammatories such Ginkgo biloba and especially Fermented Papaya Preparation (FPP) which favors cerebral blood flow and which is also used to stimulate the immune system in AIDS patients, as well as vitamins and minerals which are lacking in people with EHS.
• Metal sensitivity. Belpomme also noted the treatment must be tailored to each patient’s specific biological profile and symptoms. Many of them for example have high levels of heavy metals which are neurotoxic and all metals (worn or implanted) act like antennas capturing radiofrequencies.
• Wifi in schools. Dr David Carpenter, founding dean of Albany (New York) University’s School of Public Health, and presently its head of the Institute for Health and the Environment, said that a classroom full of children using laptops hooked up to the Internet with wireless Wi-Fi routers can «generate an enormous level of radiofrequencies (RFs) which may be enough to trigger the development of EHS which will continue for life».
• Dodgy industry research. Henry Lai, a Research Professor of Bioengineering at the University of Washington, who has been studying the biological effects of EMFs since 1980, analyzed funding sources of 326 studies performed on cell phone effects between 1990 and 2006. He found that 73% of industry-funded studies were negative (finding no effect) while 68% of independent studies were positive. He also found 86% of studies showing biological or health effects were funded independently. His conclusion: the fact that 50% of overall studies showing effects is significant enough to justify a precautionary approach that minimizes exposures.
And finally, why was this lovely picture at the top of the blog? Well, because it just could be a possibility for those of you seeking an electro-free retreat.
This is Pishwanton Wood, the ‘North European Centre for Goethean Science and Art’ or what might be more recognisable to some as a Steiner Centre and part of the Camphill movement. It is situated deep in the Scottish borders in East Lothian.
Jordi Albacete, the Communications and Marketing Officer at Pishwanton wrote to ES-UK pointing out that, ‘as a free electricity project we have no electricity in our buildings which are made entirely of natural materials (no chemicals at all) and hand built by crafts people. No mobile phones or electronic equipment is permitted in any of our buildings or even outside in the 60 acre compound. We try and do all our work by hand or horse traction. The only machine allowed is a lawn-mower and an occasional chain saw. May people have reported how well they feel here and how the effects of electrosmog disappear after few hours.’
Pishwanton offer two houses for respites and retreat and are building a cabin in Pishwanton which will have no electricity or chemicals in it at all. If you are interested, contact them direct – and enjoy!!
Filed Under: Alternative/Complementary Health, Chemicals, Electrosensitivity, Environmental Issues Tagged With: Camphill movement, Dr Andrew Tresidder, Dr David Carpenter, Dr Dominique Belpomme, Dr Lennart Hardell, Dr. Olle Johansson, electro hypersensitivity, electrosensitvity, ES, ES-UK, excess electro magnetic radiation, Igor Belyaev, Microwave factor blogsite, North European Centre for Goethean Science and Art, Pishwanton Wood, Pishwanton Wood electricity free
Electrosensitivity update – EHS recognised as a handicap in France!
08/23/2015 by Michelle 4 Comments
Electrosensitivity (being made ill by the man-made electromagnetic radiation from mobile phones and phone masts, wifi, smart meters, fluorescent lights etc etc) has been recognised as a ‘functional impairment’ in Sweden for some years. But in the rest of Europe (indeed the world) ES sufferers have struggled to have their illness recognised by doctors, let alone by employment tribunals. So the recent news from France is very welcome.
I do not know the details of the case, but whatever they are, on the 1st April La Maison Départmentale des Personnes en Situation de Handicap in Toulouse accepted that 39-year-old Marine Richard suffers from ‘a syndrome of hypersensibility to electromagnetic waves and that, even if this condition is not recognised in France, it is in other countries. The description of the clinical signs is irrefutable. The symptoms disappear as soon as the cause (the electromagnetic waves) is eliminated; but this elimination imposes on her a way of life and sacrifices which cannot be simulated. In an area protected (from electromagnetic radiation) her symptoms do not exist; in a ‘hostile’ environment they are 100%.’
The deposition goes on to describe the things that Marine Richard cannot do and how she has had to alter her house to protect her self; it recognises that there is, currently, no treatment for this condition except to try to escape from the radiation. More importantly, it recognises that she is effectively 85% disabled and is unable to work as a result of her handicap. They therefore accept that she is entitled to the same support as any other handicapped person and have allocated her that support for a two year period, after which, presumably, the situation will be reviewed.
Well done the good burghers of Toulouse. But then, France is a good deal more advanced in this area than many other countries in Europe – especially the UK. Wifi is banned in French nursery schools and its use is restricted in primary schools for example. For a good article on wifi in schools see Florence Waters in the Telegraph on May 9th this year.
In this article Dr Erica Mallery Blythe, a leading medical specialist on ES, is widely quoted and, if you do not know much about ES do either watch the presentation in the article (although it is quite long….) or watch her much shorter but helpful video introduction to the subject given at the Commonwealth Club of California in June.
And while on the subject of ES…. ES-UK, the excellent support group helping those who suffer from electrosensitivity, has just produced an updated version of their information pack which includes a directory of screening products and of the various devices that can be used to measure radiation levels and protect yourself against them. You will need to make a small donation to the group but they do a fantastic job, so your money will be well spent!
If you want learn more about ES, there is a fairly hefty section on the FoodsMatter site, more on the ES-UK site – or just Google electrosensitivity.
And if you are wondering what I am doing swathed in grey netting at the top the page…. The picture dates from the days when I was very electrosensitive myself and could only go out at all if I was wrapped in silvery netting. The silver threads created a sort of mini Faraday cage around my body and head protecting me from some, although certainly not all, of the ambient radiation. Incidentally, one of the most difficult aspects of ES is that protecting yourself against radiation is not cheap – this silver net fabric cost around £50 a metre and if you have been made so ill by radiation that you are no longer able to work, then protecting yourself becomes financially impossible.
Filed Under: Alternative/Complementary Health, Conventional Medicine, Electrosensitivity, Environmental Issues Tagged With: cost of protecting oneself against electromagnetic radiation, Electrosensitivity, Electrosensitivity recognised as handicap in France, Electrosensitivity recognised as handicap in Toulouse, ES, ES-UK, ESinformation on FoodsMatter site, Marine Richard, Marine Richard recognised as 85% disabled by electrosensitivity, screening products for ES, wifi banned in nursery schools in France, wifi use restricted in primary schools in France
ES updates…….
04/12/2013 by Michelle Leave a Comment
I receive almost daily reports of news and events related to electrosensitivity, many of which are fascinating, but not really relevant for the FoodsMatter site – but I hate not to be able to share them so here we go with a few of the most recent.
(Many thanks, incidentally, to ES-UK, EMF Refugees and Dr Olle Johansson among many others.)
Frog species are disappearing at an alarming rate in the Caribbean – could mobile phone radiation be implicated?
Researchers in the Caribbean report a 70–90% decline in the number of frogs on the islands. Not only are frogs, whose ‘peeps, tweets and staccato whistles’ enlivened the Caribbean night, an important part of the local culture but ‘they also have an important environmental role: they are consumed by birds and snakes and are major predators of mosquitoes. Their absence could lead to a rise in malaria and dengue, not to mention discomfort.’ Read more about the decline here in Yahoo News and then take a look at this research report from 2010 showing that mobile phone radiation can have a dramatic effect on the development of tadpoles.
In India…
‘The 4.5 lakh mobile towers in India are turning the country into an open microwave,’ warns Girish Kumar, researcher at IIT Bombay. ‘With 1w power (same output as cell phones) temperatures increase by 1’C in 500 seconds (9 minutes).’ Read more here in The Times of India.
Is the Cold War to blame?
Is the Cold War to blame for the lack of objective research into the possible dangers of microwave (mobile phone) radiation? A fascinating article in The Scientist last autumn by Allan Frey suggesting that security fears in the 1970s effectively closed down all research and all funding for research into the possible dangers of very weak microwave radiation (including breaching the blood brain barrier). As a result there is now no data that would allow scientists to determine whether or not there is a health hazard in mobile phone use.
Legal acknowledgement of EHS in Australia and compensation awarded for damage caused…
Details of the first case of its kind in the antipodes!
French Fashion label Smuggler designs clothes made from fabric which will block electromagnetic radiation! They should have come to me for advice – my silver net jackets were causing comment (some asking whether I was wearing a mosquito net….) five years ago!!
However, as Dr Johansson, who sent me this report remarks:
‘No! This is not the kind of society we should have…. First the spread of an environmental toxin; then we – the citizens – must wear protective clothing. Really, no.’
And finally…
‘Two children may have died for you to have your mobile phone.’
Whatever about the radiation given out by mobile phones, how much environmental and human damage is caused in making their cases? See this report from Inés Benitez in the InterPress Service.
Filed Under: Chemicals, Electrosensitivity, Environmental Issues Tagged With: Allan Frey, damage to children from mining coltan, decline of frogs in Caribbean, Dr. Olle Johansson, Electrosensitivity, EMF Refugees, ES fashion, ES-UK, French fashion label Smuggler, Legla acknowledgement of ES in Australia, mobile phone towers overrun India, mobile phones and coltan, Smuggler design ES protective clothing, tadpole development damaged by mobile phone radiation, The Cold War, The cold war and research into microwave radiation, The Scientist Magazine
1
2
Next Page »
Recent Posts
Climate change awakening
Interesting stats around allergy in catered situations
The blossom seasons continues…..
Prescription chaos over medical cannabis
Living with allergies – a blueprint
ARCHIVES
ARCHIVES Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010
Blogroll
Allergy-insight
Better brains, naturally
For Ever FreeFrom
Free From (gluten)
Freefrom Food Awards
Gluten-free Mrs D
Natural Health Worldwide
Pure Health Clinic
Skins Matter
The Helminthic Therapy Wiki
Truly Gluten Free
What Allergy?
TOPICS
Alcohol
Allergies
Alternative/Complementary Health
Behavioural conditions / autism
Big Business
Blogging/social media
Buildings
Cats
Chemicals
Coeliac/celiac disease
Conventional Medicine
Cooking/kitchen equipment
Dairy-free
Eczema
Electrosensitivity
Environmental Issues
Food
Food/Health Policy
Freedom from Torture
FreeFrom Awards
FreeFrom Food
FreeFrom Skincare
Gardens
Gluten
Gluten-free
Histamine intolerance
Medical Cannabis
Mental Health
Michelle's cats
Michelle's garden
Music
Nutrition
Nuts
Peanut allergy
Photographers
Politics
Recipes
Sugar
Travel
Uncategorized
Vaccination
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Copyright © 2019 · Minimum Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in