Learn an overview of HIV
About
Advertise on HealthyNewAge.com
Contact
Healthynewage.com NUTRITION | FITNESS | PSYCHOLOGY | WELLNESS | ALTERNATIVE HEALTH
Wellness
Nutrition
Fitness
Psychology
Dentistry
Pregnancy
Sexual health
Home / Sexual health / Learn an overview of HIV
Learn an overview of HIV
Jacques Dippenaar Sexual health Leave a comment 1,201 Views
What is HIV?
HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. HIV attacks the body’s immune system, mainly the T cells. The function of the T cells is to help the immune system fight off infections. But unlike other viral infections the body, even with treatment, can’t get rid of HIV totally. With modern drugs, this disease has become a managed lifestyle disease.
How is it transmitted?
HIV is transmitted through the semen, vaginal fluid, or pre-ejaculate fluid, during anal and vaginal sex with an infective person and not using a condom or taking medication like post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) to prevent the transmission.
But it can also be transmitted by sharing needles to inject drugs. The virus can live in a used needle up to 42 days, depending on the temperature etc.
Less common transmissions are mother to baby during pregnancy or breast milk. If a mother is on medication, she can stop the transmission to your new born.
Medical workers are also at risk if they are stuck with an HIV-contaminated needle.
Even rarer is transmission through oral sex or through a blood, be it blood transfusions or organ transplants that are contaminated with HIV.
HIV can’t be transmitted by body fluids like saliva, tears or sweat. Nor can it be transmitted by insects bites, air or water, or even toilet seats, or sharing food and drinks.
Symptoms
Without treatment, HIV advances in stages, overwhelming your immune system and getting worse over time. The three stages of HIV infection are: acute HIV infection, clinical latency, and AIDS.
Acute HIV Infection
In 2 – 4 weeks after an infection, many, people will develop severe flu-like symptoms that can include a rash, fever, sore throat, muscle and joint aches and pains, headache, and swollen glands. This stage is referred to as the primary HIV infection. This is also the body’s response to the HIV infection. This is also the stage where the HIV virus starts to replicate and destroys the body’s cells.
Clinical Latency Stage
Latency refers to the period where a virus is living or developing in a person without producing symptoms. In this stage HIV infected people experience no symptoms, or only mild ones. But the virus continues to reproduce at very low levels.
For people who are not on ART, the clinical latency stage lasts an average of 10 years, but some people may progress through this stage faster. As the disease progressions, eventually your viral load will begin to rise and your CD4 count will begin to decline. As this happens, you may begin to have constitutional symptoms of HIV as the virus levels increase in your body before you develop AIDS.
Testing
The only way to determine whether you are infected is to be tested for HIV infection.
Treatment
There is no cure, but HIV can be controlled with proper medical care. The medicine that is used are call antiretroviral therapy. These drugs also reduces the risk of an infected person infecting another person.
HIV will, if untreated, reduce the number of T Cells in the body. The person will become prone to infections. Over time, the body is unable to defend the body against infections or disease. Then HIV can lead to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, or AIDS. On average, if there is no treatment given, and depending on the subtype of HIV (HIV 1 or HIV 2), the survival time after infection with HIV is estimated to be 9 to 11 years.
Complications
Having another STD can increase the risk of getting or transmitting HI. Some of the most common STDs include gonorrhea, chlamydia, syphilis, trichomoniasis, human papillomavirus (HPV), genital herpes, and hepatitis.
If you are HIV-negative but have an STD, you are about 3 times as likely to get HIV if you have unprotected sex with someone who has HIV. There are two ways that having an STD can increase the likelihood of getting HIV. If the STD causes irritation of the skin, like from herpes, or human papillomavirus, breaks or sores may make it easier for HIV to enter the body during sexual contact. Even STDs that cause no breaks or open sores like chlamydia, can increase your risk by causing inflammation that increases the number of cells that can serve as targets for HIV.
If you are HIV-positive and also infected with another STD, you are about 3 times as likely as other HIV-infected people to spread HIV through sexual contact. This appears to happen because there is an increased concentration of HIV in the semen and genital fluids of HIV-positive people who also are infected with another STD.
Related
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
Stumbleupon
LinkedIn
Pinterest
About Jacques Dippenaar
Jacques is an influential health blogger and researcher helping readers explore interesting facts and information.
Previous Gonorrhea: Symptoms, Treatment and Complications
Next STD symptoms and treatment for Chlamydia
Related Articles
6 Reasons to See Your Gynecologist
April 5, 2018
Check Also
A Brief Guide to Building a Healthy Relationship
Sooner or later, you’ll have to deal with such thing as a relationship. And when …
Health finder
Addiction
Alternative Medicine
Alternative Therapies
Ayurvedic Medicine
Beauty
Body Detoxification
Body Mind Spirit
CBD
Children's Health
Cosmetic procedures
Courses
Dentists
Doctors
Drugs
Eco Friendly Products
Energy Medicine & Healing
Fitness Training Programs
Green Super Foods
Gym and fitness directory
Healing Travel Tours
Health Insurance
Health News
Health Problems
Healthy Diet Recipes
Holistic Healing Arts
Holistic Herbs
Holistic Nutrition
Inspirational Stories
Lose Weight Systems
Mens health
Natural Health Foods
Natural Health Remedies
Natural Pet Care
Nutritional Supplements
Organic Gardening
Pest control
Physiotherapy
Pilates
Pregnancy
Psychology
Quit Smoking
Relaxation Techniques
Sexual health
Urologists
Vaping
Women's Health Care
Yoga and pilates studio directory
Yoga Practice
Reach out
Write for us
Advertise on HealthyNewAge.com
About
Contact
Privacy Policy, FTC Disclosure Statement, and Legal Disclaimer
News
5 Factors To Consider For International Medical Schools
Are You Or A Loved One Addicted to One of These Most Commonly Abused Substances?
4 Tips For Recovering From a Serious Injury
Why is Omega 3 an amazing nutrient?
© Copyright 2019, All Rights Reserved (Healthynewage.com magazine)