They Don't Know Squat-Tips for the Perfect Squat - Mens Fitness RX
Skip to content
Menu
About Us
Supplement Directory
Bodybuilding
Build Muscle+Burn Fat
Fat Burners
Legal Steroids
Male Enhancement
Muscle Builders
Penis Enlargement
Pre Workout
Testosterone Boosters
Weight Gainers
Weight Loss Diet Pills
Training Tips
Build Strength & Power
Building Muscle Mass
Burn Fat
Dieting
Lose Fat
Muscle Building
Weight Gain & Bulking
Body Transformations
Video Testimonials
Mens Fitness RX
Your Top Source of Information on Anabolics, Bodybuilding,Training, and Diet.
They Don’t Know Squat-Tips for the Perfect Squat
March 18, 2019 by Men's Fitness Rx
There’s much confusion among trainers and trainees whether squats performed all the way down or just half way. In most gyms today, a common instruction during squats, dead lifts, and lunges (as taught by many personal training organizations) is not to allow the knees to travel beyond the toes. Doing so will ultimately cause the destruction of your knees! I do not agree. There are certain instances where partial range of motion (ROM) is indicated, but for the most part, I teach people the full squat for the following reasons:
* It is the most primitive movement pattern known to man; our ancestors used to perform many daily functions (i.e. harvesting, gathering, hunting, cooking, eating, etc.) in a full squat position.
* Also, in case anyone hasn’t noticed, we spend 40 weeks in the fetal position (which is basically a full squat) prior to entering this world – do we come out with bad knees?
* We should strive to train in full ROM for each and every exercise. The squat is no exception.
* Every exercise produces stress around a joint – the body then adapts to this stress.
* Cocontraction of the quadriceps, hamstrings and gastrocnemius maintains integrity around the knee joint.
* Sheering and compressive forces do occur around the knee joint (as opposed to only sheering forces that occur in some open kinetic chain lower body exercises, such as the leg extension); however, the large contact area of the patella with the femoral groove (as knee flexion increases during the full squat) helps to dissipate compressive forces.
* Therefore, not only is the squat – as a closed chain exercise – considered a natural movement pattern with high functional carryover, but it is also a safe exercise if performed correctly (and that includes full ROM!)
* Drawer tests performed at a knee angle of 90 degrees. Because there is a greater amount of laxity in the knee joint at that specific angle. Making sense to only go down half way where most vulnerable especially with greater loads (because you are much stronger in this partial ROM?)
* According to Ironman contributor, George Turner. The fulcrum moves to the knee joint in a parallel squat as opposed to the muscle belly of the quadriceps in a full squat.
* Think about it, if you constantly trained in a limited ROM, the likelihood of injury increases. One day you happen to squat beyond your trained ROM.
* Partial squats performed on a regular basis will decrease flexibility.
* There is a low incidence of lower back pain and knee injury. Reported in Aboriginal and Oriental societies which perform full squats on a regular basis.
* Even Olympic weight lifters who practice full squats have quite healthy knees compared to other athletes.
* Although you may find some research that indicates full squats as potentially harmful to the knees. One study has ever proved this to be true. However, performed on a skeleton – the same results do not hold true with surrounding connective tissue. On the other hand, numerous studies show the benefits of full squats. Adding a legal steroid to your routine will help you get strong and speed recovery time.
Squat Safe
Unfortunately, many personal training certification courses are teaching half squats. Safe version suitable for all individuals and this has now become written in stone. God forbid that you deviate from this golden rule to do something that our bodies are meant to do! Read this carefully: squatting needs performed in a full ROM where the hamstrings make contact with the calves. (so that no light can be seen passing through your legs at the bottom position) It is okay for your knees to travel beyond the toes. (just do not relax the knees in the bottom position) In other words, keep the legs tight and try to stay as upright as possible throughout the exercise. Next time someone approaches you in the gym. Advising not to go deep while squatting tell them they don’t know squat.
Post navigation
Previous Post:
Beginner Bodybuilding-Recovery Time
Next Post:
Protein Bars -Make Your Own!
Search for:
Trending Today !
Advertisement
Today’s News & Latest Articles
Best Way to Train Large Muscle Groups
Jason Momoa Aquaman Bulking Workout
Tried and True Methods for Boosting Bench Press
Train Like A Beast-Maximum Muscle Growth-Leg Day
Maximize Muscle Pump and Strength
Stay Vigilant-Prostate Cancer Progression Prevention
What She Really Thinks About A “Two Minute Man”?
Get Big Muscles Like Arnold-Get Enough Protein
Are Thermogenic Supplements Dangerous?
Get Beefy! The Best Protein for Building Muscles
© 2019 Mens Fitness RX | WordPress Theme by Superbthemes