Dr. Gabe Mirkin on Health, Fitness and Nutrition. | CELL PHONES
Home
Fitness
Nutrition
Health
Women's Health
Men's Health
Diabetes
Heart Health
Joints, Bones & Muscles
Other Diseases & Conditions
Diana's Healthful Recipes
Deaths of Famous People
Weekly-eZine
Home
Fitness
Nutrition
Health
◉ Women's Health
◉ Men's Health
◉ Diabetes
◉ Heart Health
◉ Joints, Bones & Muscles
◉ Other Diseases & Conditions
◉ Diana's Healthful Recipes
◉ Deaths of Famous People
Weekly-eZine
Subscribe to Dr. Mirkin's free FITNESS & HEALTH NEWSLETTER
CELL PHONES
A comprehensive study in the Journal of the American Medical Association shows that hand-held cell phones apparently do not increase a person's risk for brain cancer (1). This is refreshing news for the more than 86 million people who use cell phones regularly.
Exposure to 800 to 900 MHz range radio frequencies comes from the antenna inside the phone which delivers most of the energy to the ear and cheek. Portable cellular phones with the antenna in a box and car phones with the antennae on the car do not deliver these radio waves to the brain.
Microwaves from cell phones cannot cause cancer unless they produce heat because, unlike X rays, they are not strong enough to break bonds that hold molecules together. Last year, a very disturbing study from the University of Nottingham in England showed that cell phones emit low dose microwaves that cause round worms to release heart shock proteins, a sign that the cells are damaged (1). At the Bioelectromagnetics Society symposium in Washington, D.C. in February, studies reported that 25 percent of people using cellular phones feel heart behind their ears.
People who use cell phones regularly have a markedly increased risk for headaches and recurrent fatigue and 47 percent noted dizziness, concentration difficulties and memory loss. Although there is no evidence that cell phones cause brain cancer at this time, it may be a good idea for regular cell phone users to use an inexpensive extension ear and mouth piece that you can buy in most electronics and radio stores.
1) JAMA, December 20, 2000.
2) Nature May 25, 2000.
3) Science News February 12, 2000
Checked 8/9/05
June 1st, 2013
| Share this Report!
Email this Report
Email
Recent
High-Intensity Interval Training Can Increase Injuries
April 21st, 2019
Fitness for Cancer Patients and Survivors
April 21st, 2019
Peter Sellers' Many Heart Attacks
April 21st, 2019
Earl Thomas Conley and Cerebral Atrophy
April 21st, 2019
Rheumatoid Arthritis and Colon Bacteria
April 14th, 2019
Fiber, a True Superfood
April 14th, 2019
The Good Food Book
FREE - You can read The Good Food Book on your computer. It will help you to lose weight, lower cholesterol or high blood pressure, control diabetes, or just eat more healthfully.
Read more
Find us on Facebook
About the Author: Gabe Mirkin, MD
Sports medicine doctor, fitness guru and long-time radio host Gabe Mirkin, M.D., brings you news and tips for your healthful lifestyle. A practicing physician for more than 50 years and a radio talk show host for 25 years, Dr. Mirkin is a graduate of Harvard University and Baylor University College of Medicine. He is board-certified in four specialties: Sports Medicine, Allergy and Immunology, Pediatrics and Pediatric Immunology. The Dr. Mirkin Show, his call-in show on fitness and health, was syndicated in more than 120 cities. Read More
Home
Fitness
Nutrition
Women’s Health
Men’s Health
Diabetes
Heart Health
Joints & Bones
More Health Reports
Recipes
Online Radio Show
eZine
Histories & Mysteries
DrMirkin Recommends
About Dr. Mirkin
The Good Food Book
Archive
Site Map
Copyright 2016 Drmirkin | All Rights Reserved | Powered by Xindesigns