Do Crystals, Minerals, and Gemstones Really Heal | NRampuria
Crystal And Meditation
Gemstone Healing
EMOTIONAL HEALING
PHYSICAL HEALING
SPIRITUAL HEALING
Gifts & Occassions
Featured Gemstone
About Me
About
Crystal And Meditation
HEALING THROUGH GEMSTONES
Featured Gemstone
Gifts & Occasions
Etsy Shop
Contact Us
HEALING THROUGH GEMSTONES
Do Crystals, Minerals, and Gemstones Really Heal
June 23, 2018
Mesopotamians, Egyptians, Native Americans, Indians, Tibetans, Africans have all from time immemorial
believed in crystals, minerals, and gemstones. They believed that stones have metaphysical properties
that heal physically and soothe spiritually. While societies have seen drastic changes over the centuries,
this belief that crystals and gemstones have healing properties have stood the test of time. So the real
question in today’s age when technology and science have advanced to staggering heights, is whether
there is any truth in this belief? Can gemstones, minerals, and crystals really heal? Do healing crystals
have the power to change a person’s life?
Scientists have been researching to find concrete answers to these questions for a long time. Though
there have not been any scientific evidence whether healing minerals can actually treat physical
ailments, evidence has been seen where people have found relief and solace using crystals and
gemstones. These stones are known to soothe the soul, work on aligning the chakras and bringing
stability to one’s life. Of course, these are things that cannot be ‘physically seen’ but gemstones healing
jewelry powers can be felt.
How Healing Crystals Work
Crystal healers or the real proponents of healing techniques believe that crystals, gemstones, and
minerals work as conduits in the body. They allow positive energies to flow into the body while driving
out negative energies. Of the many crystal healing techniques that have been found in ancient texts and
cultures, the ones that have again become popular today are those that were practiced among the
Chinese and Indians. The Chinese concept of chi and the Hindu belief of chakras are the two most popular
healing techniques practiced in the world. In both these believe, gems and crystals are said to connect
at a physical and supernatural level and bring relief to the body and soul.
Every crystal, gem or mineral known to mankind has unique properties that heal at different levels. Each
of these healing crystals and healing minerals works on one or more chakras, help treat physical ailments
and calms the mind. For example, yellow topaz brings mental clarity, amethyst is beneficial for the
intestines while green aventurine works well for the heart. Crystal healers have various suggestions on
how minerals, gems, and crystals can be beneficial. Most commonly they suggest that wearing these
stones can help. However placing them at a certain part of the body, depending on the problem
identified is also a common practice among crystal healers. Positioning stones on the body help to
directly align the chakras and bring stability to the body. Crystal healers believe that if chakras are not
aligned they give rise to diseases as well as energy imbalances.
Do Healing Techniques Really Work
As mentioned above there is no scientific evidence which proves that healing techniques work. However, it
has been seen time and again how after the regular use of crystals and gemstones, patients feel calm
and composed. While their physical illness may not cure, their belief in the positive effect of crystals helps
them overcome mental blocks. Healing techniques are mostly ‘felt’ and thus cannot be scientifically
quantified which makes it difficult for many non-believers to trust crystal healing process. However,
those who have been touched by gemstone healing and felt change can vouch for their effectiveness.
Who Can You Get in Touch With
Unlike medical doctors, you may not find crystal healers easily. Since crystal healing isn’t mostly a
certifiable profession, you will most likely be in touch with a healer whose experience and effectiveness
speak rather than his certificates and degrees. In Asian countries finding a healer is easier as more
people believe in the effectiveness of gems, minerals, and crystals. You can find many Indians wearing
gemstones as jewelry simply because they believe in their effectiveness. However, in the West, you will
have to look out for authentic healers who understand your problem and give you stones according to
your need. There are some Internet-based certification courses that healers can complete but they are
not industry standards.
Crystal, gemstone and mineral healing is mostly belief-based. If you believe that they can help you
soothe your mind and bring physical changes, they will.
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
One Reply to “Do Crystals, Minerals, and Gemstones Really Heal”
theintuitivewife says:
July 5, 2018 at 4:15 pm
I definitely believe that Crystal’s and healing modalities work. For a long time I knew nothing about it. After many changes in my life I became a Reiki practitioner and also incorporated colour therapy and crystal healing. I’ve seen great results with both my clients and myself! I don’t know how I survived for so long without incorporating Crystal’s and energy into my daily life!
Loading...
Reply
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
Post navigation
Some Words Of Advice On Healing Crystals By My Father
Fire Agate – A Blaze of Protection
LOOKING FOR SOMETHING
Search for:
About Me
I Love meditation with gemstones. i am a avid rock collector. Daddy of two beautiful children and love to travel. My love for gemstones and their vibrant colors got me into jewelry profession and I have been collecting rare pieces of gemstones from all over the world for past 10 years.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Google +
Instagram
Video
SUBSCRIBE
Get the latest posts by email.
Email Address
Subscribe
Categories
Categories Select Category Category Crystal And Meditation EMOTIONAL HEALING FEATURED GEMSTONE HEALING THROUGH GEMSTONES HOW TO STYLE YOU JEWELS Jewelry Education JEWELRY GIFTS IDEAS PHYSICAL HEALING SPIRITUAL HEALING
Instagram Feed
Load More...Follow on Instagram
Etsy Collection
Etsy Shop: API reponse should be HTTP 200
API Error Description: Invalid api_key: o22ctlgkrj08eg4aki5ho6w0
Recent Post
Brecciated Mookaite Stores All Earthly Energies
Do You Know The Exciting Tale Behind Goldstone?
Coffee bean jasper is as invigorating as coffee
Learn The Art Of Healing Through Colorful Gemstones
Wild Horse Magnesite Opens The Mind
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 (2) March 2019 (4) February 2019 (5) January 2019 (2) December 2018 (5) November 2018 (4) October 2018 (5) September 2018 (12) August 2018 (10) July 2018 (5) June 2018 (5) May 2018 (4) April 2018 (3) May 2016 (2) April 2016 (16) March 2016 (11) February 2016 (27) January 2016 (23) December 2015 (13)
About Nrampuria
I Love meditation with gemstones. i am a avid rock collector. Daddy of two beautiful children and love to travel. My love for gemstones and their vibrant colors got me into jewelry profession and I have been collecting rare pieces of gemstones from all over the world for past 10 years.
Company
About
Contact Us
Crystal test
Help/FAQ
Contact
B-106 Udai Marg Tilak Nagar Jaipur India 302004
9829203050
me@nrampuria.com
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Google +
Instagram
BLOGS
Category (2)
Crystal And Meditation (34)
EMOTIONAL HEALING (7)
FEATURED GEMSTONE (44)
HEALING THROUGH GEMSTONES (20)
HOW TO STYLE YOU JEWELS (7)
Jewelry Education (15)
JEWELRY GIFTS IDEAS (18)
PHYSICAL HEALING (7)
SPIRITUAL HEALING (5)
© COPYRIGHT 2018 nrampuria | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
%d bloggers like this: