Colds and flu and the big vitamin C myth – path 2
Subscribe
in a reader
Dietary Supplements
Antioxidants
Bio Supplements
Minerals
Vitamins
Supplements Controversy
Health Conditions
Allergy Problems
Cancer Types
Pain Problems
Respiratory Problems
Viral Infections
Stomach Problems
Immune System Health
Diseases
Eye Care
Teeth Health
Women's Health
Bacterial Infections
Intestinal Health
Plastic Surgery
Urology
Neurology
Medications
American Health Care
Men's Health
Healthy Nutrition
Healthy Diets
Nutritious Food
Probiotics
Metabolism
Body Metabolism
Metabolic Health
Healthy Exercises
Metabolic Diet
Cardiovascular Health
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Human Circulatory System
Cardiovascular Disease Prevention
Cholesterol Treatment
Skin Care
Body Skin Care
Facial Skin Care
Natural Skin Care
Skin Disease
Natural Remedies
Herbal Treatment
Natural Products
BiostocksPro
Expert Advice
Financial Securities
Alternative Energy Investments
Financial Planning
Funds Investment
Penny Stocks Investment
Stock Market Investment
Home » Health Conditions » Viral Infections » Flu
Colds and flu and the big vitamin C myth – path 2
Harri Hemilä, an Author-Professor, claims that it makes no sense to take vitamin C every single day of your life to reduce the chance of getting a cold or flu. Nevertheless, as we said earlier, the use of vitamin C could be justified if the person has a severe cold or flu, or certain physical stresses. In addition, one study gives strong evidence that a taking large dose of vitamin C when the cold or flu just starts could be of benefit. However, there is more research required to confirm these results.
The recommended dose of vitamin C currently allowed is only 60mg, but a registered British Dietetic Association dietician, Catherine Collens, says that the optimum amount of vitamin C should be 200mg per day, because it has been proven to help our immune system. She said that this amount could be easily obtained by most people just by eating five portions of vegetables and fruit on a daily basis. However, if you eat too much vitamin C, it will not be absorbed into the body, and, thus, will be removed.
Ms Collins said that even though infection-fighting white blood cells have been found to use vitamin C, there is simply not enough evidence to suggest that it also helps prevent colds and flu. She said that it sounds biologically feasible to most people, since vitamin C strengthens the immune system. However, there is not enough proof that vitamin C prevents an illness from occurring.
For more information,
go to: en.wikipedia.org,
nlm.nih.gov
The information supplied in this article is not to be considered as medical advice and is for educational purposes only.
Related Articles:
Hydrogen Peroxide Therapy for Cold and Flu Season
Iodine: Forgotten Natural Remedy Against Flu Virus
Flu treatment fails in the US - experts look to Canada to get answers.
The flu vaccine and antivirals - Research into the dangers for pregnant women.
Top 10 Herbal Flu Remedies
Flu 19 Aug 2010
No Responses to “Colds and flu and the big vitamin C myth – path 2”
1
Tanya Says:
If vitamin C is not as important for the immune system are are told, then what should the person who actively supplements their diet with this vitamin take as a replacement? Vitamin D? What is the best thing for the immunity?January 18th, 2011 at 8:08 am
Click here to cancel reply.
CATEGORIES
Allergy Problems
Cancer Types
Pain Problems
Respiratory Problems
Viral Infections
Bird Flu
Flu
HPV
Other Viruses
Stomach Flu
Swine Flu
Stomach Problems
Immune System Health
Diseases
Eye Care
Teeth Health
Women's Health
Bacterial Infections
Intestinal Health
Plastic Surgery
Urology
Neurology
Medications
American Health Care
Men's Health
RECENT POSTS
Ebola Patients Treated With Experimental Drug Called ZMapp
4 Tips for Preventing the Spreading of Germs and Viruses
The Future of HPV Vaccinations?
How to Prevent Recurring Cold Sores
Natural Way to Get Rid of Green Mucus
RECENT COMMENTS
Rob on Café Hey (Tampa)
Djon on Café Hey (Tampa)
Alex on Café Hey (Tampa)
Jake on Café Hey (Tampa)
Robyuan on Café Hey (Tampa)
© Copyright 2019, Nutralegacy.com
Home Articles History Disclaimer	Mission Statement Terms of Use Site Map Forum Contact Us