How many ways can you use WD-40 ????? – Marks Bolts
Explore	Close
Menu	Close
Search for:
Entire Site CustomersDIYHow-to VideosPro-TipsProductsUncategorized
Categories
UncategorizedHow-to VideosProductsCustomersDIYPro-Tips
Tags
pro-tipThread Galling
Archives
April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018
Fasteners
US Standard
Metric
Stainless
Tamper Proof
Concrete & Block
Tools
How-to Videos
Charts & Pro Tips
Technical Charts
Pro-Tips
Shade Systems
How to Set Up a Tarp
Canopy Set-Ups
Tarps
Tarp Fittings
Company
Testimonials
Marks Bolts
Just another WordPress site
Fasteners
US Standard
Metric
Stainless
Tamper Proof
Concrete & Block
Tools
How-to Videos
Charts & Pro Tips
Technical Charts
Pro-Tips
Shade Systems
How to Set Up a Tarp
Canopy Set-Ups
Tarps
Tarp Fittings
Company
Testimonials
Close
Uncategorized
How many ways can you use WD-40 ?????
Here’s a list of recommended uses from the manufacturer:
Protects silver from tarnishing
Removes road tar and grime from cars
Loosens stubborn zippers
Untangles jewelry chains
Keep ceramic/terracotta garden pots from oxidizing
Keeps scissors working smoothly
Lubricates noisy door hinges on vehicles and doors in homes
Lubricates gear shift and mover deck lever for ease of handling on riding mowers
Rids kids rocking chairs and swings of squeaky noises
Lubricates tracks in sticking home windows and makes them easier to open
Spraying an umbrella stem makes it easier to open and close
Restores and cleans roof racks on vehicles
Lubricates and stops squeaks in electric fans
Lubricates wheel sprockets on tricycles, wagons, and bicycles for easy handling
Keeps rust from forming on saws and saw blades, and other tools
Lubricates prosthetic limbs
Keeps pigeons off the balcony (they hate the smell)
Removes all traces of duct tape
Florida’s favorite use: “cleans and removes love bugs from grills and bumpers”
If you sprayed WD-40 on the distributor cap, it would displace the mostire and allow the car to start
It removes black scuff marks from the kitchen floor! Use WD-40 for those nasty tar and scuff marks on flooring. It doesn’t seem to harm the finish and you wont’ have to scrub nearly as hard to get them off. Just remember to open some windows if you have a lot of marks. Wash off after use.
Bug guts will eat away the finish of your car if not removed quickly! Use WD-40!
More ‘UNOFFICIAL’ uses for WD-40
On your stovetop
Cleans and lubricates guitar strings
Keeps flies off cows
Restores and cleans chalkboards
Removes lipstick stains
Removes stains from stainless steel sinks. Cleans fronts of stainless steel appliances
Removes tomato stains from clothing
Keeps glass shower doors free of water spots
Camouflages scratches in ceramic and marble floors
Gives a children’s play gym slide a shine for a super fast slide
Restores and cleans padded leather dashboards in vehicles, as well as vinyl bumpers
Lubricates fan belts on washers and dryers and keeps them running smoothly
Keeps bathroom mirror from fogging
Folks even spray it on their arms, hands and knees to relieve arthritis pain
Favorite use in the state ofNew York? Protecting the Statue of Liberty from the elements
Attracts fish- spray a little on live bait or lures and you will be catching the big one in no time. A lot cheaper than the chemical attractants that are made for just that purpose. Keep in mind that using some chemicals laced baits or lures for fishing are not allowed in some states.
Use it for fire ant bites. Takes away the sting immediately and stops the itch.
Removes crayon from walls
Spray on a distributor cap and it will displace the moisture and allow the car to start
Posted by	Greg Corby
All Posts
Leave a comment	Hide comments
Leave a reply Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Welcome!
We’ve got everything you need for any type of job or project. You can stock up on nuts, bolts and washers. You will find threaded rod and all kinds of metric, USS and SAE fasteners. We can help you design an outdoor shade system for the long, hot summer. Come wander through the aisles and see what kind of unique surplus items we have recently purchased.
Our business is committed to:
• Good service
• Reasonable prices
• Abundant product selection
• Doing business with integrity.
Mark’s Newsletter!
OUR HOURS
Monday-Thursday 8am-5pm
Fridays 8am-3pm
CONTACT US
Phone: 623-939-9312
Fax: 623-939-0927
Mark@MarksBolts.com
OUR ADDRESS
6710 West Belmont Ave
Glendale, Az 85303
Northwest corner of 67th Ave and Belmont.
2 streets south of Northern Avenue.
View Map
Next
Welcome to our new website!
November 3, 2011
Previous
HAPPY THANKSGIVING!
November 17, 2011
© 2019 Paperback Theme by Array.