Lower Your Cholesterol Levels, Lower Your Term Life Insurance Rate - QuickQuote
Skip to content
QuickQuote
QuickQuote - Term Life Insurance
Term Life Insurance
What is Term Life Insurance?
Term Life Insurance Quotes
No Exam Term Life Insurance
No Exam Term Life Insurance Quotes
Other Types of Life Insurance
Accidental Death Life Insurance
Permanent Life Insurance
Return of Premium Term Life Insurance
How it Works
Why QuickQuote?
We Shop for You
Anonymous Quotes
No Spam
Save Money
Save Time
Apply Online
Apply by Phone
Calculate Your Need
Will You Qualify?
Term Life Insurance Process
Quote Process
Underwriting Process
Renewal Process
Payment Process
Resources
Life Insurance Learning Center
Term Life Insurance Calculator
Life Insurance Planning Tool
Life Insurance Questions & Answers
Life Insurance Glossary
Quick Term Life Insurance Guides
Life Insurance Videos
Other Life Insurance Resources
About Us
About Us
Our History
Only Term Life Insurance
Social Media
Privacy Policy & Legal Information
Help
Customer Service
Contact Us
Sitemap
Search
Blog
January 11, 2012/ Author: QuickQuote Contributor
Lower Your Cholesterol Levels, Lower Your Term Life Insurance Rate
One in every five Americans has high cholesterol, making them at risk for heart disease. Heart disease is the number-one killer of both men and women in the United States. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), heart disease is responsible for 29% of all American deaths.
Luckily there are actions you can take to lower your cholesterol and prevent heart disease. Here are a few simple steps that could add years to your life:
Know Your Number
Unlike other conditions, high cholesterol has no noticeable symptoms. In fact, many people surprised to learn they have high cholesterol. It is imperative to empower yourself and learn your cholesterol level. Knowing you have high cholesterol is the first step to doing something about it.
Change Your Diet
One thing you can do to lower your cholesterol is cut back on foods high in cholesterol and total fat, especially saturated and trans fats. Saturated fats (found in meat and full-fat dairy products) raise your total cholesterol. Trans fats (found in margarine, store-bought cookies, crackers, and cakes) are particularly bad for your cholesterol levels. They raise low-density lipoprotein (LDL), or your bad cholesterol, and lower high-density lipoprotein (HDL), your good cholesterol.
What to Eat
A heart-healthy diet isn’t just about what you shouldn’t eat. It also means eating a diet rich in vegetables and fruits, whole grains, high-fiber foods, lean meats and poultry and fat-free or 1 percent fat dairy products.
Listed below are several foods that have proven to reduce your cholesterol:
Oatmeal contains soluble fiber, which is known to significantly reduce your bad cholesterol.
Walnuts are rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids and lower blood cholesterol and help keep blood vessels healthy and elastic.
Fish is a great source of omega-3 fatty acids, an excellent way to lower triglyceride levels.
Olive oil contains a potent mix of antioxidants that can lower your bad (LDL) cholesterol while leaving your good (HDL) cholesterol unchanged.
Quit Smoking
If you are a smoker, cholesterol shouldn’t be your only worry. Cigarette smoking increases the risk of a long list of diseases, heart disease among them. It increases blood pressure, decreases your ability to exercise and increases blood clotting. If you use tobacco or nicotine in any form, quitting should be your top priority.
Exercise
Physical activity is a great way to lower cholesterol. Make time in your schedule for at least 30 minutes of exercise a day. Exercise helps control factors that can cause heart diseases such as excess weight, diabetes, and high blood pressure. Regular physical activity also affects blood cholesterol level by increasing your good cholesterol, or HDL, which is linked with a lower risk of heart disease.
If you have high cholesterol, it is important to monitor it regularly and take steps to lower it. Having high cholesterol doesn’t mean term life insurance is out of the question. Let your term life insurance broker know if you have high cholesterol and they will assist you in choosing the best life insurance company for you.
How to Get Term Life Insurance If You Have High Cholesterol
TwitterFacebookPinterestLinkedinPocketEmail
QuickQuote Contributor
Reader Interactions
Ready to get started?
Your quotes are always free.
Term Life Insurance Quotes
This website uses a Secure Site Certificate issued by Let's Encrypt.
QuickQuote is a BBB Accredited Business.
Applications for life insurance on QuickQuote.com are made through QuickQuote Financial, Inc. or through its designated agent, Timothy S. Bain, only where licensed and appointed. License numbers are available here and are automatically provided where required by law. QuickQuote's National Producer Number is 1927227. Timothy S. Bain is a licensed life insurance agent in 49 states, including the District of Columbia, and his resident state of Nevada. Timothy S. Bain's Nevada license number is 45949; in California, 0D23811; in Louisiana, 274924; in Massachusetts, 1762164; in Minnesota, 20267005; in Texas, 1092088; and in Utah, 134031.
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Google+
Instagram
Copyright © 1995 - 2019 | QuickQuote Financial, Inc. | 10775 Double R Blvd. Ste. 103, Reno, NV 89521