BCA Cell Phone Cancer - Home
Home
Contact Us
Types of Cancer
Filing a Claim
Cell Phone Class Actions
The Ugly Truth About
​Cell Phones and Cancer.
Brent Coon and Associates and Cell Phone Brain Cancer
BCA is now investigating Cell Phone lawsuits after prominent studies have tied Cell Phone Usage to Brain Cancer.
​A veteran of hundreds of jury trials, Brent Coon & Associates has obtained verdicts for many individuals in excess of a million dollars over the last decade and total settlements exceeding one billion dollars.
The firm has a full complement of trial lawyers and a large staff of paralegals, secretaries, investigators and other support staff. Brent Coon & Associates are a national firm with offices and affiliates across America.
​If your family has been affected by brain cancer and you suspect cell phones may have played a role, you may have a potential legal claim.
​(learn more about Brent Coon and Associates)​​
Types of Cancer Caused by Cellphones
Cell Phone Cancer Class Actions
Filing a Cell Phone Cancer Claim
There have been recent studies that link cell phone usage to an increased risk of brain cancer. A Finish scientist, Dariusz Leszczynski, recently commented that...(read more)​
The benefit of a class action is consolidating all the Cancer Cell Phone lawsuits into one place preventing multiple depositions and streamlining the discovery period...(read more)​
At BCA we want to make the process of filing a Cell Phone Cancer lawsuit as easy on our clients as possible. We will work to get the proper paperwork and due diligence done...(read more)
Cell Phone Cancer Videos
There have been many great videos and documentaries on the risks associated with cell phones and cancer.
Recently Mobilize, a Film about Cell Phone Radiation won the Best Documentary Award, at the California Independent Film Festival. Below is the trailer for this Cell Phone Cancer documentary.
(video here)
In the file, they detail the long term health problems of active cell phone use and radiation effects. It also interviews cell phone cancer experts and cell phone industry members and influential politicians. The film was directed by Kevin Kunze.
There is also a long form CNN News Report detailing the news that Cell Phone may cause and increased risk of Brain Cancer. That report is also linked below.
(video here)
Cell Phone Brain Cancer, the Law, the Lawsuits, and BCA
BCA is now investigating Cell Phone lawsuits after prominent studies have tied Cell Phone Usage to Brain Cancer.
​Recent studies indicated there are links between cell phone usage and an increased risk of cancer. Cell Phone Cancer lawsuits have already been filed in various courts all around the United States. Brent Coon and Associates is actively investigating lawsuits regarding cancer victims and cell phone usage. In fact, the Cell Phone industry does warn consumers that they should keep cell phones a "half inch" away from their bodies, but this information is buried in the fine print of the user manual. Also this information is not mentioned at all industry-written parents’ guide to cell phone safety. Plaintiffs are arguing that the cell phone industry may be guilty of a "failure to warn" consumers of the potentially fatal risks.
The most common types of cancer which are being linked to cell phone usage include:
Glioma,
Meningioma,
Acoustic Neuroma,
Anaplastic Astrocytoma
Parotid Gland Tumor (PGT)
​About BCA's Cell Phone Cancer Lawyers
First and foremost Brent Coon & Associates prides itself on being a public policy law firm. Brent Coon's mission is to help ensure his clients rights are protected and their well-being respected. As a national law firm they have worked with thousands of clients and recovered millions of dollars for victims of various corporate greed. While best known for it's work during the Texas City Explosion and the BP Gulf Coast Oil Spill, BCA employees an aggressive products liability department which works tirelessly advocating for consumers who have been victims of corporate neglect.
Cell Phone Cancer Lawsuits
​Reportedly there have already been nearly 30 brain tumor lawsuits that have been filed in Washington DC. In August of 2014 a judge in D.C. Superior Court admitted testimony of 5 expert witnesses that ultimately will testify that "general causation" which means that they will testify that cell phones do increase the risk of brain cancer. The cell phone brain cancer lawsuits will the move to the discover phase. This decision to consolidate these lawsuits leads some believe that a Cell Phone Class Action lawsuit could be possible in the future. BCA is actively monitoring this situation regarding any potential Cell Phone Cancer Class action. Regarding these Cell Phone Lawsuits DC Superior Court Judge Frederick H. Weisberg stated the following "Federal law is the supreme law of the land, but there is no constitutional provision that says federal facts are the supreme facts of the land. Federal law can preempt state law, but it cannot preempt scientific fact. The scientific truth, whatever it may be, lies outside of the FCC’s regulations about what is 'safe' or 'unsafe.'
​Filing a Cell Phone Cancer Lawsuit
​
Brent Coon and Associates has extensive experience in product liability lawsuits which will now include the cell phone cancer litigation. Each Cell Phone Cancer lawsuit is different and our Call Phone Brain Cancer lawyers will working with you through the process required to ensure you maximum recovery. We have represented numerous victims of negligence, as well as the families of those victims. Some of our previous clients have been awarded or settled for millions of dollars. If you have suffered from any type of cancer and believe it may have been caused by cell phone use, contact our Cell Phone Cancer Lawyers for a Free Cell Phone Cancer Claim Evaluation or contact us today
​
​
Copyright 2015 - 2018
Brent Coon & Associates
All Rights Reserved
BCA Disclaimer
Brent Coon - 215 Orleans - Beaumont, TX 77701
Proudly powered by Weebly
Home
Contact Us
Types of Cancer
Filing a Claim
Cell Phone Class Actions