Basic Questions and Answers About HIV Transmission - HIV Prevention Resource Center - TheBody.com
Advertisement
Home
Do I Have HIV?
Staying HIV Negative
Prevention for People With HIV
HIV Prevention News
0
Email
Print-Friendly
Information
Basic Questions and Answers About HIV Transmission
From U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
September 6, 2016
1 | 2 | 3 | Next >
Myths persist about how HIV is transmitted. This section provides the facts about HIV risk from different types of sex, injection drug use, and other activities.
Table of Contents
How Is HIV Passed From One Person to Another?
How Well Does HIV Survive Outside the Body?
Can I Get HIV From Anal Sex?
Can I Get HIV From Vaginal Sex?
Can I Get HIV From Oral Sex?
Is There a Connection Between HIV and Other Sexually Transmitted Diseases?
Does My HIV-Positive Partner's Viral Load Affect My Risk of Getting HIV?
Can I Get HIV From Injecting Drugs?
Can I Get HIV From Using Other Kinds of Drugs?
If I Already Have HIV, Can I Get Another Kind of HIV?
Are Health Care Workers at Risk of Getting HIV on the Job?
Can I Get HIV From Receiving Medical Care?
Can I Get HIV From Casual Contact ("Social Kissing," Shaking Hands, Hugging, Using a Toilet, Drinking From the Same Glass or the Sneezing and Coughing of an Infected Person)?
Can I Get HIV From a Tattoo or a Body Piercing?
Can I Get HIV From Being Spit on or Scratched by an HIV-Infected Person?
Can I Get HIV From Mosquitoes?
Can I Get HIV From Food?
Are Lesbians or Other Women Who Have Sex With Women at Risk for HIV?
Is the Risk of HIV Different for Different People?
How Is HIV Passed From One Person to Another?
You can get or transmit HIV only through specific activities. Most commonly, people get or transmit HIV through sexual behaviors and needle or syringe use.
Only certain body fluids -- blood, semen (cum), pre-seminal fluid (pre-cum), rectal fluids, vaginal fluids, and breast milk -- from a person who has HIV can transmit HIV. These fluids must come in contact with a mucous membrane or damaged tissue or be directly injected into the bloodstream (from a needle or syringe) for transmission to occur. Mucous membranes are found inside the rectum, vagina, penis, and mouth.
In the United States, HIV is spread mainly by
Having anal or vaginal sex with someone who has HIV without using a condom or taking medicines to prevent or treat HIV.
Anal sex is the highest-risk sexual behavior. For the HIV-negative partner, receptive anal sex (bottoming) is riskier than insertive anal sex (topping).
Vaginal sex is the second-highest-risk sexual behavior.
Sharing needles or syringes, rinse water, or other equipment (works) used to prepare drugs for injection with someone who has HIV. HIV can live in a used needle up to 42 days depending on temperature and other factors.
Less commonly, HIV may be spread
From mother to child during pregnancy, birth, or breastfeeding. Although the risk can be high if a mother is living with HIV and not taking medicine, recommendations to test all pregnant women for HIV and start HIV treatment immediately have lowered the number of babies who are born with HIV.
By being stuck with an HIV-contaminated needle or other sharp object. This is a risk mainly for health care workers.
In extremely rare cases, HIV has been transmitted by
Oral sex -- putting the mouth on the penis (fellatio), vagina (cunnilingus), or anus (rimming). In general, there's little to no risk of getting HIV from oral sex. But transmission of HIV, though extremely rare, is theoretically possible if an HIV-positive man ejaculates in his partner's mouth during oral sex. To learn more about how to lower your risk, see Oral Sex and HIV Risk.
Receiving blood transfusions, blood products, or organ/tissue transplants that are contaminated with HIV. This was more common in the early years of HIV, but now the risk is extremely small because of rigorous testing of the US blood supply and donated organs and tissues.
Eating food that has been pre-chewed by an HIV-infected person. The contamination occurs when infected blood from a caregiver's mouth mixes with food while chewing. The only known cases are among infants.
Being bitten by a person with HIV. Each of the very small number of documented cases has involved severe trauma with extensive tissue damage and the presence of blood. There is no risk of transmission if the skin is not broken.
Contact between broken skin, wounds, or mucous membranes and HIV-infected blood or blood-contaminated body fluids.
Deep, open-mouth kissing if both partners have sores or bleeding gums and blood from the HIV-positive partner gets into the bloodstream of the HIV-negative partner. HIV is not spread through saliva.
Learn more about how to protect yourself and get information tailored to meet your needs from CDC's HIV Risk Reduction Tool (BETA).
Advertisement
How Well Does HIV Survive Outside the Body?
HIV does not survive long outside the human body (such as on surfaces), and it cannot reproduce outside a human host. It is not spread by
Mosquitoes, ticks, or other insects.
Saliva, tears, or sweat that is not mixed with the blood of an HIV-positive person.
Hugging, shaking hands, sharing toilets, sharing dishes, or closed-mouth or "social" kissing with someone who is HIV-positive.
Other sexual activities that don't involve the exchange of body fluids (for example, touching).
Learn more about how to protect yourself and get information tailored to meet your needs from CDC's HIV Risk Reduction Tool (BETA).
Can I Get HIV From Anal Sex?
Yes. In fact, anal sex is the riskiest type of sex for getting or transmitting HIV.
HIV can be found in certain body fluids -- blood, semen (cum), pre-seminal fluid (pre-cum), or rectal fluids -- of a person who has HIV. Although receptive anal sex (bottoming) is much riskier for getting HIV than insertive anal sex (topping), it's possible for either partner -- the top or the bottom -- to get HIV. The bottom's risk is very high because the lining of the rectum is thin and may allow HIV to enter the body during anal sex. The top is also at risk because HIV can enter the body through the opening at the tip of the penis (or urethra); the foreskin if the penis isn't circumcised; or small cuts, scratches, or open sores anywhere on the penis. See the Prevention Q&As for information on how to lower your risk of getting HIV from anal sex.
Learn more about how to protect yourself and get information tailored to meet your needs from CDC's HIV Risk Reduction Tool (BETA).
Can I Get HIV From Vaginal Sex?
Yes. Vaginal sex is the sexual behavior with the second-highest risk for getting or transmitting HIV.
It is possible for either partner to get HIV from vaginal sex.
When a woman has vaginal sex with a partner who's HIV-positive, HIV can enter her body through the mucous membranes that line the vagina and cervix. Most women who get HIV get it from vaginal sex.
Men can also get HIV from having vaginal sex with a woman who's HIV-positive. This is because vaginal fluid and blood can carry HIV. Men get HIV through the opening at the tip of the penis (or urethra); the foreskin if they're not circumcised; or small cuts, scratches, or open sores anywhere on the penis. See the Prevention Q&As for information on how to lower your risk of getting HIV from vaginal sex.
Learn more about how to protect yourself and get information tailored to meet your needs from CDC's HIV Risk Reduction Tool (BETA).
1 | 2 | 3 | Next >
Related Stories
Living With HIV
HIV/AIDS: The Basics
HIV Transmission
More on HIV/AIDS Basics
0
Email
Print-Friendly
This article was provided by U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Visit the CDC's website to find out more about their activities, publications and services.
This Week in HIV Research: From PrEP to Treatment, There's Always More …
Transgender Activists Question Trump Administration's Sincerity in …
Overdoses and Smoking Are Taking the Lives of People With HIV Who Have …
Archive Remembers Heroes and History of Black HIV/AIDS Activism
Large French Study Examines Neuropsychiatric Side Effects With …
How to Find HIV Treatment Services
Long-Acting HIV Treatment Is Coming. Our Health Care System Needs to …
Using Sign Language, New Video Promotes HIV Testing for Youth of All …
This Week in HIV Research: HIV Is Not an Obstacle
Dovato Is a Newly Approved Two-Drug HIV Regimen. Do Fewer Drugs Mean a …
New Study Finds HPV Infection High -- and Vaccination Rates Low -- in …
Louie Ortiz-Fonseca Builds Digital Bridges Between Youth and the …
PrEP Use Is Correlated With an Increase in STIs, JAMA Study Finds
New Campaign Seeks to Shift Opioid Conversation to Mass Incarceration, …
Depression Linked to Cognitive Dysfunction in HIV-Positive Women
Sticker Shock: PrEP Is Not Cost-Effective at Current Price, Health …
Opioid Epidemic Is Fueling HIV Cluster Outbreaks -- Here's How CDC Is …
This Week in HIV Research: Fentanyl Smooths the Path for HIV
Antidepressants Can Be Hard to Withdraw From. Here's How to Do It …
8 Advocates Share Their Top HIV Policy Issues at AIDSWatch 2019
Researchers Crave More Data on HIV Care Continuum Programs for …
Results of CDC-Funded Local Projects for MSM and Transgender People …
Advertisement
The content on this page is free of advertiser influence and was produced by our editorial team. See our advertising policy.
11 Sexy Campaigns That Spread the Word -- and the Love -- on PrEP
What's in Store for HIV Prevention in the Future?
Most Viewed Articles
R. Kelly, Sexual Predators, and HIV in a Society Where Black Girls Don't Matter
TheBody's 10 Most Popular HIV-Related Stories of 2018
HIV Drug Prices Keep Rising. Why Is No One Talking About It?
Newly Diagnosed With HIV, I've Got Challenges and a Lot of Blessings in Store for the New Year
Gay Men: It's Time to Stop Calling the Police on One Another for HIV Non-Disclosure
HIV Tools You Can Use
TheBody.com's Health Tracker (Ending in April 2019 -- Very Important Alert to Current Users!)
Sign Up for TheBody.com's Email Newsletter
TheBody.com's Medication and Health Reminders
TheBody.com's Facebook, RSS Feeds and Twitter
Are You at Risk for HIV? Take Our Quiz!
U.S. ASO Listings
International ASOs
The Body: About The Body | Contact The Body | Site Policies | Content Providers | Advertise With Us | Site Map
Remedy Health Media: About Remedy Health Media | Contact Remedy Health Media | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
The Body is a service of Remedy Health Media, LLC, 750 3rd Avenue, 6th Floor, New York, NY 10017. The Body and its logos are trademarks of Remedy Health Media, LLC, and its subsidiaries, which owns the copyright of The Body's homepage, topic pages, page designs and HTML code. General Disclaimer: The Body is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice or professional services. The information provided through The Body should not be used for diagnosing or treating a health problem or a disease. It is not a substitute for professional care. If you have or suspect you may have a health problem, consult your health care provider.