How to Sober Up From Weed
How to Sober Up From Weed
It is virtually impossible to instantly sober up after a marijuana high. The chemical delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is the part of weed that makes you high, and it can vary greatly from plant to plant, often depending on how it's grown, processed, and stored; that means that how it affects you can vary greatly. You can, however, do a few things to help bring down your high. In addition, you can take steps to give up marijuana permanently, so you don't find yourself in this situation in the future.
1. Commit to sobering up. The best way you can help yourself is to commit to getting off weed. If you're not committed, no one else can make you do it. It has to come from you. However, take it step-by-step. Maybe the first commitment you make to yourself is finding a rehab program. Maybe the second commitment you make is going to the rehab program. Choose steps you can take day-by-day.
2. Fight the addiction. Contrary to popular belief, you can get addicted to marijuana. The high you get from marijuana is what causes some people to get addicted — they want to recreate that feeling. For everyday users, about a quarter to a half become addicted to the drug.
3. Get help. It's not easy to quit any kind of drug on your own. Addiction is a chronic condition for many people and it requires a number of services that hug the patient and provide them with the support that they need. Find a program out there that can help you. If you need a break from your life, try a rehab program, which can separate you from a lifestyle that contributes to your smoking habit for awhile. If you have good support from your family, try a local group like Marijuana Anonymous.
The government provides resources for helping you get off drugs. For instance, you can use the government website Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to find a rehab center that's right for you. Look into addiction counseling, peer support groups, pharmacotherapy, and psychotherapy. Some or all of these services may be needed to get you into recovery.
4. Learn how to cope. Using a drug like marijuana is often a way to escape problems. Therefore, to help you get off the drug, you need to learn how to deal with stress without reaching for the drug. Rehabs and groups for addicts can be helpful, but you can also learn some coping mechanisms on your own.
One way to help you cope with stress is to talk about it with people you trust. Even if you can't come up with a solution, sometimes just getting the stress off your chest by talking can help relieve it. Don't be afraid to take a break from a stressful situation. If something is really stressing you out, such as a work problem, don't be afraid to walk away from it for a bit. Take a moment to take a few deep breaths and clear your head. In addition, don't be afraid to take a break from things that stress you out in your life. For instance, if you find watching the news stressful, maybe you should skip it for awhile.
5. Expect psychological side effects. If you've been smoking weed for a long time, you will likely experience some side effects when you stop. Some people have trouble sleeping after stopping weed, while others may experience depression or excessive anger. Another withdrawal effect is your dreams may become more vivid, as using weed can make your dreams less vivid.
6. Expect physical side effects. You'll also likely experience some physical side effects of withdrawal. You may develop headaches for awhile or experience night sweats. You also may cough up mucus. Finally, you may have a lowered appetite, as well as have shaking or dizziness.
7. Make new friends. If all of your friends also smoke, you're likely to fall back into old habits if you continue to hang out with them. Try making some new friends with whom you can enjoy other activities. For instance, you could join local groups that have an interest in the same hobbies as you. You could volunteer or join an exercise class. Find people who like some of the same things you do, minus the weed. Try looking on meetup for groups in your area.
8. Hydrate yourself. Drinking plenty of water may help flush some of the marijuana out of your system. In addition, being hydrated can make you feel better over all. Though the typical recommendation is to drink eight glasses of water a day, experts actually suggest that men need about thirteen cups of water a day, while women need about nine. Try drinking some cranberry juice in addition to water. It can help in the process of detoxing.
9. Eat potassium. If you are having problems with extra sweating, eat foods high in potassium. Try potatoes with the skin on, melons, bananas, citrus fruits, and dark, leafy greens.
10. Skip caffeine. Because detoxing can cause insomnia, you don't want to add to the problem. While you're trying to get your sleep schedule back to normal, skip the coffee.
Article source: wikiHow wikiHow is a group effort to create a great resource: the world's largest free how to manual. wikiHow articles help people solve their everyday problems. wikiHow licenses all content under a Creative Commons License. The license allows wikiHow content to be used freely for noncommercial purposes. The Creative Commons License also allows for the creation of derivative works.