How to stay protected from HIV
minuttest
HIV test near me
Asset 2 About the HIV test
Asset 1 Living with HIV
Asset 1 Stay Safe
Hometest for HIV
Use a condom
Using a condom is the only way to protect yourself against Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and unwanted pregnancy. You can get free condoms at all the testing sites for minuttest. The Church City Mission also has orange post boxes with condoms at several of their locations. Read more about condoms and where to get free condoms here.
Get tested for STIs
Did you know that you are protecting yourself against HIV by testing yourself for STIs? If you for instance has gonorea in the throat, anus, or vagina, there is a higher risk to get the HIV virus. And, did you know that many STIs don't have symptoms? When you change partner, we recommend to get tested for STIs. This is for your own health, and others as well. Read mor about STIs and where you can get tested here.
Get tested for HIV
How HIV can't be transmitted
air_water
Air and water
toilet
By sharing toilets and showers or through food and drinks
insect
Insects or pets
sweat
Through spit, sweat, tears and urine or any kind of touching, hugging and kissing
social
By socializing with friends, family, neighbours, colleagues and others
Protect yourself and others by getting tested
HIV testing near me
You can get HIV from
sex
Through sexual intercourse
In Norway, HIV infection mainly occurs through sexual intercourse. You can be infected with HIV if you have vaginal, anal or oral intercourse without a condom.
needle
From mother to foetus or child
In Norway, mothers and children are treated with HIV medicine and breastfeeding is discouraged. This makes the risk of mother to child transmission minimal.
mother_child
Via infected blood
You can be infected by sharing and reusing syringes and needles. There are also still countries where hospitals do not have such good practices for blood transfusion as we do. In such places one can be infected through a blood transfusion.
Find a test place near you
Here you can read more about how HIV is transmitted and not transmitted:
Information about sexual health in 12 languages: Church City Mission
Aksept – centre for all those affected by HIV.
The Norwegian Institute of Public Health (Folkehelseinstituttet)
Information about HIV in different languages: The Norwegian Institute of Public Health (Folkehelseinstituttet)
Helsenorge.no – Information about hiv
pep
PEP
PEP (post-exposure prophylaxis) is a medicine that can prevent the HIV entering cells and reproducing after one has been in a risky situation. PEP should be taken as soon as possible and no later than 48 hours after being exposed to HIV infection. The treatment lats 28 days.
You can read more about PEP here (Norwegian).
pep
PrEP
PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) is a medicine that can be taken by someone who is HIV negative to prevent possible HIV infection. PrEP can be taken just before one knows that there might be a risky situation, or on a daily basis.
You can read more about PrEP here.
Want to know more about hiv?
Would you like to find out more about HIV? Perhaps your workplace or organization would like to learn more? The Church City Mission has a number of businesses who work with HIV, both preventive and psychosocial assistance.
OSLO
Aksept – centre for all those affected by HIV
Nationwide psychosocial knowledge centre.
Individual counselling, guidance and support for people with HIV and their families.
A meeting place where you can meet others in the same situation.
Teaching packages that fit your business or organization.
Observation for health and social workers
Primary Medical Workshop
Social and cross-cultural bridge-building with cultural and linguistic competence in Somali, Urdu and from Arabic-speaking areas.
Individual counselling and group work.
Information meetings and events.
BERGEN
Living with HIV
Individual counselling and guidance for people with HIV and their families.
A meeting place where you can meet others in the same situation.
Teaching packages that fit your business or organization.
HAUGESUND
Living with HIV
Individual counselling and guidance for people with HIV and their families.
A meeting place where you can meet others in the same situation.
Teaching packages that fit your business or organization.
STAVANGER
Living with HIV
Individual counselling and guidance for people with HIV and their families.
A meeting place where you can meet others in the same situation.
TRONDHEIM
Aksept og mestring
Individual counselling and guidance for people with HIV and their families.
A meeting place where you can meet others in the same situation.
Teaching packages that fit your business or organization.
Financed by Helsedirektoratet
Become a volunteer for Kirkens Bymisjon
The Church City Mission is an open and inclusive organisation and our work is amongst and with people who in different ways struggle with their everyday life.