Alakik.net | Universal Exports in India
Alakik.net
Universal Exports in India
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Aboutus
Products
Discount Offer
Return Policy
Using Healing Crystals In Day To Day Life
Leave a reply
The use of the healing crystals in day to day life has become quite a common occurrence in the recent times. This clearly proves how popular these healing crystals have become. The new age healing crystals plays a crucial role in benefiting the individuals who use these on a regular basis. Now, there are many who want to make use of these healing crystals but they are of the viewpoint that they are not very easy to use which is not exactly the case. Some of the easiest and convenient ways to use the healing crystals in day to day life are as listed below.
Holding a Crystal at The Time of Mediation
This is basically the simplest way available to make use of a healing crystal. You can simply start hold the crystal in one hand or in both hands as you meditate. This gives you a feeling of sinking deep into the earth thereby creating a grounding effect making you feel lighter.
Creation of a Crystal Grid
The crystal grids are actually used for the purpose of transformation of the energy in a space. You need to pic the healing stones that perfectly align with your intention and simply set these crystals up in a grid by creating a pattern that is symmetrical. All of these crystals work together for the manifestation of the intention where the symmetrical pattern of the grid so created helps in its quicker accomplishment.
Carrying a Crystal
Another of the very simple way of using the healing crystals is to carry the crystals along with you. The greater you are in contact with the crystal, more aware you would be of its energy. So, it is a very good idea that you carry the crystal in your purse or pocket.
Putting Crystals on the Body
Placing the crystals on your body can play a significant role and the effect is completely different as compared to simply holding them. If you are dealing with any specific chakra, you need to pick up that corresponding crystal and simply place it on your body to feel the difference.
Using the Crystals While Doing Yoga
The use of the healing crystals at the time of doing yoga can be a very simple way of using them yet they are effective. Using the crystals during yoga encourages a much deeper state of healing meditation.
Related Topic: Universal Exports: The best wholesaler of new age healing crystals
Thus, it can be clearly understood that the use of the healing crystals can be done in quite simple ways in our daily lives.
This entry was posted in Healing Crystal on February 18, 2019 by Rehan Shaikh.
Understanding Healing Crystals
Leave a reply
The healing crystals have been a very common term nowadays. These crystals are being readily used by a number of persons and there have been successful results as well. So, these healing crystals have become one of the hot topics of discussion. These healing crystals have proved their healing power which is the main reason as to why many people go for it. But still there are some who are hesitating to go for the healing stones. So, here a complete guide about the healing crystals to help you out on the same.
What are Healing Crystals?
The healing crystals are basically stones that occur naturally and have fantastic healing powers. These crystals actually harness the life giving elements of the universe and the earth. By harnessing the energy of the sun, moon and the oceans, these healing crystals or stones connect us the earth as soon as we are in contact with these. The curative effects of these healing crystals depends upon the individual’s own experience but started off, these crystals would certainly show their positive effect.
What the Crystals Do?
The healing stones harness the healing power by the manifestation of the intention of the individuals and what they actually want to create in their lives. Coming to the basics of the crystals these otherworldly stones connect us to the earth because of the fact they are tangible physical forms which have some powerful vibrations in them. This particular energy keeps on continuing to connect with the individual when these intention crystals are placed close to the skin or the environment where they are. With each thought as well as intention the healing crystals pick up on the unique vibrational energy of the individual and necessarily amplifies the positive vibrations which the individuals are cultivating.
Types of Healings that You Can Expect
With the use of the healing crystals, you can necessarily expect a physical as well a mental healing thereby ensuring an overall well being of the individual. The crystals can be used to heal almost anything. These healing crystals help in the acceleration of the meditation practices where you need to align your seven chakras and even you can induce trance states in the appropriate conditions. Actually, there is no limit of the types or level of healing that can be obtained from these healing crystals with its proper application. While looking for the healing aspect of the mind, these healing crystals help in clearing, energising and balancing. So, get your own wholesale metaphysical crystals and begin with your process of healing.
Get in touch with us call: +91 98985 41435
This entry was posted in Healing Crystal on February 15, 2019 by Rehan Shaikh.
Tips To Setup A Reiki Grid – Reiki Wholesale
Leave a reply
Reiki is basically a healing technique which is based on the principle of palm healing or simply hands on healing. In this case, the therapist can transfer or channel energy into the body of the patient by means of touch especially the palms. This is done in order to activate the natural process of healing in the patient for the restoration of both physical as well as mental well being of the patient.
Reiki Grid
A reiki grid is actually a special grouping of the healing stones that are necessarily laid out in a particular formation for some specific purposes. The grid needs of be created and at the same time empowered with a sacred intention as well as a prayer. Each of the crystals or stone within the grid so created amplifies both qualities and energy of the other stones present in the grid.
Setting Up the Grid
Now, it becomes very important to set up the grid in the right manner. The grid can be created by using 14 crystals and charging each of them with reiki energy so as to make sure that they consistently send reiki to yourself or someone else whose picture or name has been placed in the grid at the time of creating it. Here are some important tips on setting up a reiki grid.
First and foremost, 14 crystals need to be chosen. 12 of them are for the outer section, one would be central and one would be the master. You can use pendulum, scanning, muscle testing, intuition or just choose those you feel like.
All the chosen ones need to be purified as per requirement. Then you need to charge all of them with reiki by using all the symbols particularly HSZSN.
Now, you need to staple or stick the photo of the World Peace Crystal Grid on a cardboard piece. Then the 12 outer crystals should be placed as per the photo. The crystals need to be fixed in place with a transparent double backed tape.
In the next step, place your picture or of someone whom you want to heal in the middle with a positive affirmation on the back. Now, the central crystal needs to be put on the top of the photo by simply sticking the photo as well as the crystal in place with the help of a double backed tape.
Then the grid is needed to be charged on a daily basis. This is to be done charging the master crystal at first and then use the same for the purpose of charging the grid.
Finally, the pictures or names of those who require healing need to be placed or a goal needs to be written inside the grid who will be constantly receiving reiki. The healing requests can be placed under the grid or outside it as well.
Related Topic: Tips To Create The Perfect Reiki-Grid
Get your own wholesale reiki set and simply follow these simple steps mentioned above which would easily help you in setting up the reiki grid in an effective way.
This entry was posted in Reiki sets on February 15, 2019 by Rehan Shaikh.
Can You Wear A Healing Pendulum As A Pendant?
Leave a reply
The use of healing pendulums has become a common thing in the recent times. There are a number of people who prefer to use these pendulums for getting the desired healing. The healing pendulums as can be understood from the name plays a significant role in the overall process of healing of the individuals.
Wearing a Healing Pendulum
Anyone who intends to use the healing pendulum needs to necessarily wear it. The wearing of the healing pendulum promotes the healing process and the individuals start to feel the change in them. But at this point of time, it is extremely important as to how to wear the healing pendulum.
Wearing as a Jewellery or Pendant
When it comes to wearing of these healing pendulums, there are a number of people who decide to wear them as a jewellery or a pendant. Now, the question that arises here is whether the healing pendulum can be worn as a pendant or not. The experts are of the viewpoint that any of the pendulums which are designated for the purpose of healing, should not be worn as any decorative jewellery. If the pendulums are made up of gemstones, then the users should know that the energies of these crystals can actually be to overwhelming to comfortably wear on your body.
There are many who are quite sensitive to the vibrations of the crystals. The energies of the crystals can feel quite draining or simply the opposite that is too highly charged. But the individual who is wearing the pendulum with gemstones might not be aware of the fact, that the wearing of the stone is the reason of this disturbance or the out-of-sync feeling. These stones absorb and transform energies so it is best that these are not worn as a pendant or any other form of decorative jewellery. But if you still want to go for it, then there is some attractive brown glass as well as metal pendulums which are fashioned into pendants for being worn around the neck. The wholesale chakra pendants can be of a great help if you want to wear a healing pendulum as a pendant.
Get in touch with us call: +91 98985 41435
This entry was posted in Healing Pendulum on February 13, 2019 by Rehan Shaikh.
Why Should You Be Wearing Chakra Jewellery? – Chakra Wholesaler in USA
Leave a reply
Chakra is an ancient Indian word that signifies the cycle of life. And as evolution says the story of life is an cyclic event, evolving to be the better. Chakra jewellery has been symbolic representation of the betterment for the human evolution. That in itself holds the power to heal.
Ever wonder why?
How it heals?
Well human body in itself are made up of 7 chakra’s namely Muladhara, Svadhisthana, Nabi-Manipura, Anahata, Vishuddhi, Ajna and Sahasrara. Each chakra is further subdivided into 17 sub chakras other than Ajna which is a combination of 12 chakras, where all these chakras come together to create the essence called life.
In order to rejuvenate the basic 7 chakras and improve life chakra jewellery is curved with extreme pristine to provide the maximum benefits to your bodily chakra. How chakra jewellery aid you in your day to day life.
Where to wear
One of the best places to wear your chakra jewellery is around your chest region, because it marks the centre chakra and have clinical control over all the chakra’s in your body. So it is suggestible that you wear your chakra jewellery in forms of pendant.
Why to wear
Chakra jewellery controls all the 7 essential chakra’s of your body providing a rejuvenating essence that will aid you in overcome most of diseases even the negative thought processes.
Click here for the Benefit of Wearing Chakra Jewellery
How Chakra Jewellery helps
High frequency positive vibrations that help you force out of the various negative energies.
It helps to draw back harmony into your life.
It improves your energy level and provides you with calmness.
It increases dopamine level in your body so that your body get ample rest.
Improve and boosts your immunity system so that you can fight diseases and other external factors that are harmful for your body.
With a large list advantages that Chakra jewellery provide, think no more order wholesale chakra pendant from us to help improve your life.
For more details get in touch with us call: +91 98985 41435
or vitis our website: www.alakik.net
This entry was posted in Chakra Jewelry on January 23, 2019 by Rehan Shaikh.
Tips To Create The Perfect Reiki-Grid
Leave a reply
Reiki Grid is an amazing technique of assisting distant healing by using crystals and placing them in a grid. It is created based on the unique, extraordinary theory and network of World Peace Crystal Grid. It is plausible to build a pattern or grid using 14 crystals as well as charging them with a high level of Reiki energy. Hence, they shall continuously keep sending Reiki to anyone whose place or picture is placed in the grid. This kind of advanced technique is more efficient than using a singular crystal. In this way, the effect of Reiki can be sent at the same time to many people. Just like a single crystal, the steps are almost similar.
They include:
1. Selecting 14 crystals by seeking a suggestion in findings the ones that shall best suit for the Reiki Grid.
2. Twelve crystals will be needed for the grid’s exterior part, one shall be needed right in the centre and another one to be used as the Master Crystal.
3. The crystal to be placed in the centre can be either a double or single terminated crystal, a crystal ball, a crystal pyramid or even a crystal cluster.
4. Unlike the crystal to be placed in centre, the master crystal is a longer crystal, almost resembling like a laser. It should be having an energy off the Yang type and must be utilized for directing Reiki into the Reiki Grid.
5. It is imperative to check with a pendulum or even a same kind of method that any stones or crystals one selects shall work, to be used in the Reiki Grid. Then, the cleansing process is needed for later charging them in the same way.
6. After charging them, one can use it along with a World Peace Crystal Grid picture. With the help of this picture, the Reiki Grid shall be linked with some fabulous World Peace Crystal Grid’s energies, charged once every month by individuals from different parts of the world. To initiate the healing process, these energies shall be adding effectiveness and strength as well as ensure a higher consciousness level.
Related Topic: How To Use Energy Generator Crystals For Wellness And Balance?
Take a look at our exclusive Reiki Products:
Reiki Direction Sets: www.alakik.net/listing/reiki-direction-sets
Reiki Sets: www.alakik.net/listing/reiki-sets
Worrystone Reiki Sets: www.alakik.net/listing/worrystone-reiki-sets
This entry was posted in Reiki sets on January 21, 2019 by Rehan Shaikh.
Supercharging the Mind, Body and Spirit with Wholesale Metaphysical Crystals
Leave a reply
Metaphysical crystals have been there on the planet even before human came into existence, and have been a resource to the formation of the earth. With development of society and human thriving ahead to create a better life these crystals have been part of human desire for long, adoring the beauty of fingers to other body parts, reflecting an essence of pristine, class and status.
All these reflection have been carried out using crystals for thousands of years now, without even having a clear knowledge about how these crystals have been aiding mankind for generations.
Ever wonder why peace of mind is not directly proportional to wealth even though we stride everyday to achieve more of it. Because we forget the greatest wealth that we have is our own body. To ensure you achieve the peace of mind and a healthy body we have been striving all along to bring you the best quality metaphysical crystals at a wholesale scheme, that not only make it easy for you to achieve it, but also ensure that you feel supercharged while you take a walk with our metaphysical crystals down your daily life.
Take a peek down the window of our body and open up to the power of supercharged healing with our metaphysical crystals:
Clearing: Metaphysical crystals works as a magnet to pull out all the negative energy surrounding you and provide you with an essence of cool breeze and creates a Garden of Eden that will help you focus and take great positive strides in your life. This also ensures that you have your peace of mind at home, at work and in every aspects of your daily routine.
Energizing: Nature provides us with all that we need for the very essence of life! Sunlight likewise other than providing with mere vitamin D can be used in a more eccentric way to energize your mind body and soul, for that all you need is a metaphysical crystal. When sunlight or deflected light of sun from the moon hit the metaphysical crystal it creates a positive radiation around you that not only rejuvenate your neurons but also helps in a smoother blood flow, that in turn keep you energized throughout the day and let you walk that extra mile you always dreamt off in your daily life.
Balancing: Too much of anything will spoil the food! Metaphysical crystals help you keep and maintain a healthy balance of energy in your daily life that will help you to get proper rest and peace in your day to day life, and allow you to take more clear and positive decisions which used to lay in the shadows of crowded mind earlier.
Related Topic: The Best Place To Purchase New Age Metaphysical Products
Reborn, rejuvenate and break free with the supercharging essence of metaphysical crystals.
Take a look at our exclusive healing products:
Crystal Quartz Pranic Diamonds: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/crystal-quartz-pranic-diamonds-20-30mm
Crystal Quartz Chakra Disintegrator: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/crystal-quartz-chakra-disintegrator
Black Agate Diamonds Energy Generators: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/black-agate-diamonds-energy-generators
Black Jasper Disintegrator: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/black-jasper-disintegrator
Mix Gemstone Pranic Diamonds: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/mix-gemstone-pranic-diamonds
This entry was posted in Metaphysical Crystals on January 18, 2019 by Rehan Shaikh.
The Right Way To Wear Healing Crystal Jewellery For Maximum Results
Leave a reply
Timeless Healing crystals
Healing Crystals can have extraordinary advantages if worn as jewellery. Since times immemorial, the striking uniqueness in a crystal has drawn innumerable crystal lovers. Always in vogue, Healing crystals and their spiritual quality makes them a substantial demand even today. The vicious circle and its monotony has urged many urban dwellers to seek for meaningful life. The effect of some healing crystals has been wondrous to render some miraculous curing.
Key Healing Crystals- what they cure and how?
Aquamarine: They enable treating thyroid and Pituitary Glands if a person suffers from growing problems. It also helps to treat Hay fever. The crystal can be worn as a necklace, bracelet as a polished and drilled piece of jewellery.
Amber: It helps to cure head-aches which happens because of changes in hormonal changes, digestive issues and hormonal issues. One must wear a neck-lace or even a pendant having a direct body contact.
Turquoise, Magnesite and Diaspor: It helps to relieve heart burn. The crystal can be worn as a earrings, neck-lace, bracelet or even as a pendant.
Rose quartz: It addresses heart Rhythm disturbances. Any irregularity in heartbeat results in irregularity of life’s rhythm. Rose quartz helps to enhance rest, re-creation, sleep, closeness with a strong security sense. A pendant or a necklace can be worn with a direct body contact on heart.
Lapis Lazuli: It helps to solve issues like Hoarseness, a disorder causing partial voice loss due to an upper respiratory-tract’s infection. A Lapis Lazuli can help to enhance the hoarseness of voice. A neck-lace or a pendant can be worn which has close contact with the throat area.
Emerald: It cures chronic head-colds and head-aches owing to fever and inflammation. Wearing a necklace with direct body contact for a longer times helps to heal head-aches.
Epidot: It enables re-building the human immune system post a serious illness for normalizing the boy functions. It also helps in stress and deals with severely painful experiences. It is importance to wear it as a neck-lace or pendant.
Ruby: It helps to address different kinds off impotence which happens because of weakness and emotional reasons. It promotes an active sex life and gives back passion into life. It can be worn as a bracelet, neck-lace or a pendant.
Amethyst: It is useful for tension and head-aches which originates from eye-strain. For insect bites also, Amethyst gives a cooling effect and relieve from itching. There are other health issues, an Amethyst can help with like nausea, Diarrhoea etc. It can be worn as a neck-lace or a pendant.
What Chakra wholesale can Guarantee?
Chakra Wholesale can guarantee 100% genuine and authentic healing crystals for all its customers. It ensures catering to the various healing issues of customers and solving them with crystal-based healing techniques. With jewellery as carriers of these healing crystals, people can address their health issues by wearing them as attractive bracelet, pendants or just as necklaces.
Take a look at our exclusive healing products:
Crystal Quartz Pranic Diamonds: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/crystal-quartz-pranic-diamonds-20-30mm
Crystal Quartz Chakra Disintegrator: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/crystal-quartz-chakra-disintegrator
Black Agate Diamonds Energy Generators: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/black-agate-diamonds-energy-generators
Black Jasper Disintegrator: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/black-jasper-disintegrator
Mix Gemstone Pranic Diamonds: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/mix-gemstone-pranic-diamonds
This entry was posted in Alakik.net - Universal Exports on January 16, 2019 by Rehan Shaikh.
Looking To Learn About How To Use Healing Stones?
Leave a reply
The artform of crystal healing has existed in human civilization for over thousand years. Ingrained from the ancient Indian, Mesopotamian, Egyptian and Greece civilization, Crystal Healing has been an undeniable segment of natural medicines. Crystals resonate their individual signatures of energy. When a crystal’s electromagnetic field comes in contact with that of a human, the flow of energy starts through the various meridians. This activates the chakras, stimulates electrical nerve impulses, starts the hormonal glands activity and re-generates cellular metabolism, organs and tissues.
There includes a plethora of ways, healing crystals can be used. These include:
1. Carrying them in a pocket: This is one of the mot effective and prevalent ways to use a crystal and restore its impact.
2. Under a bed or pillow: Crystals can be used to encourage the special effects of healing while sleeping.
3. Ear Olives: There are oval and longish crystals which can be used to place on the external part o the ear.
4. Ointments: Ointments from Healing crystals can be made by having the gem essences mixed with a base of an ointment comprising of beewax and jojoba oil (1:5).
5. Energetic Treatment: The body fluids can be allowed to flow by having them laid on the body.
6. Using them as a jewellery: This is the most seen and heard form of using a healing crystal. It can be worn as a bracelet, neck-lace and pendant etc.
7. Stone circle: Lying or sitting in a full complete circle of crystals can help to take in strong and positive crystal energies.
8. Holding in the hand: This application works using the hand’s reflexology zones.
9. Holding in the mouth: Through a localized effect, this application works within the mouth as well as mucous membranes.
10. Massaging: Healing crystals can be moved around the skin for massaging purposes.
Related Topic: How Do Healing Stones Work?
Make your experience with healing crystals unique and positive with our whole sale healing stones.
Take a look at our exclusive healing products:
Crystal Quartz Pranic Diamonds: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/crystal-quartz-pranic-diamonds-20-30mm
Crystal Quartz Chakra Disintegrator: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/crystal-quartz-chakra-disintegrator
Black Agate Diamonds Energy Generators: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/black-agate-diamonds-energy-generators
Black Jasper Disintegrator: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/black-jasper-disintegrator
Mix Gemstone Pranic Diamonds: http://www.alakik.net/productsdetail/mix-gemstone-pranic-diamonds
This entry was posted in Healing Crystal on January 12, 2019 by Rehan Shaikh.
What Is Reiki Therapy and How Can It Help You Heal?
Leave a reply
Every person wants to have a healthy mind and body. Unfortunately, the imbalanced lifestyle along with the never-ending work do not let your mind and body be at peace. Dump medicines and opt for the best healing process of Reiki therapy to have a good emotional as well as physical health. Let us know in the following lines more about Reiki.
A Note on Reiki
In Reiki, a person’s disease gets cured by way of passing on the positive energy through the palm of the practitioner into the patient’s body. It is a kind of energy healing process which was first started in Japan. The therapist transfers the universal energy into the person’s body by using the palms in a right way over the person’s body, especially on the part where the patient feels ache. In modern days, alongside of using palms, various Reiki crystal stones have been used for healing the health conditions.
The Advanced Reiki Therapy
The present age calls for using Reiki crystal stones for healing all types of physical and emotional problems. Upon knowing about your emotional or physical pain, the therapist uses the right kind of Reiki crystal on the part of your body to release the clogged energy all over your body, giving you a permanent relief from your pain. If you know the use of Reiki, then there are reiki sets for sale in the online stores from where you can choose your type of Reiki sets.
Related: What is Reiki And it’s Benefits
How the Reiki Therapy Can Heal Your Disease?
There are seven chakras which are present in a human’s body. The role of these chakras is to release energy. If there are imbalances in any of these chakras, then you experience emotional and physical disturbances. From depression and anxiety to other chronic health disorders, a person can be afflicted to physical and emotional problems which can be healed by practicing the Reiki therapy. In order to surmount the physical and emotional health-related challenges, the use of Reiki can be highly beneficial. The therapist tries to find out whether you have an imbalance in any of the chakras. If there is an imbalance in the chakra, then the therapist finds out the precise area of the chakra and then uses the application of Reiki to get you rid of the pain as soon as possible.
Also read this: What To Do Before Your Reiki Session For Healing?
Do not let the emotional or physical hardships come in the way of your happy life. Contact the wholesaler of Reiki sets and get yourself the most appropriate one for the perfect healing you are looking forward to.
Gen in touch with us call: +91 98985 41435
This entry was posted in Reiki sets on December 24, 2018 by Rehan Shaikh.
Post navigation
← Older posts
Search for:
Recent Posts
Using Healing Crystals In Day To Day Life
Understanding Healing Crystals
Tips To Setup A Reiki Grid – Reiki Wholesale
Can You Wear A Healing Pendulum As A Pendant?
Why Should You Be Wearing Chakra Jewellery? – Chakra Wholesaler in USA
Categories
Agate Arrowheads
Alakik.net – Universal Exports
Amethyst Products
Chakra
Chakra Healing Wands
Chakra Jewelry
Chakra Sets Wholesaler
Energy Generator Crystals
Gemstone
Gemstone Eggs
Healing Crystal
Healing Crystal Wands
Healing Pendulum
Healing Stones
Merkaba Stars
Metaphysical Crystals
New Age Healing Crystals
New Age Metaphysical Products
Reiki sets
Rose Quartz
Semi Precious Stones & Jewelry
Tumble Stones
Archives
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
September 2017
August 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
Proudly powered by WordPress