Fish Oil and Heart Disease | New Roots Herbal | Natural Health Products
Contact us: 1 800 268-9486
English | Français
Back
Toggle navigation
Close
Products
Category
Gender / Life Stage
Health Benefits
New Products Amino Acids / Proteins Antioxidants Enzymes Essential Fatty Acids
Fish Oils
Exotic Skin Oils Functional Foods
Cooking Oils
Fermented Products
Green Foods
Natural Sweeteners
Teas / Herbal teas
Glandular Extracts Herbal Extracts
Essential Oils
Medicinal Mushrooms Probiotics Vitamins / minerals
50+ Health Children’s Health Men’s Health
Men's Fertility
Sexual Health (M)
Women’s Health
Fertility / Maternity
Menopause
Sexual Health (F)
Blood Glucose Management Cardiovascular Health Detoxification Digestive Health Energy Hair / Skin / Nails Immune Health
Allergy Relief
Muscle / Bone / Joint Health Neurological / Memory Health Sport Nutrition Stress / Mood / Sleep Weight Management
View All Products
Catalogue and Pamphlets
About Us
History Analytical Testing
Store Locator
Contact Us
Flourish Blog
Laboratory
Videos
Log in
Home > Health
Fish Oil and Heart Disease
by Philip Rouchotas, MSc, ND
January 11, 2017
The amount of research that has been conducted on the topic of fish oil for the prevention and treatment of heart disease is astounding. Thousands of studies are listed on PubMed, the online repository of peer-reviewed medical journals. Fish oil has been shown to:
reduce the risk of having a heart attack among high risk patients;
improve cholesterol levels;
reduce blood pressure; and
improve heart function.
The now famous GISSI‑Prevenzione trial was a landmark study of patients with established heart disease, that showed benefit from fish-oil supplementation in reducing their risk of having a second, fatal heart attack and reducing their risk of death from heart disease.[1] This study used a dose of combined eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid (EPA+DHA) equal to 1 g per day. Since then, additional research has demonstrated other cardiovascular benefits as well. The JELIS study, conducted in Japan, found that higher doses of EPA+DHA, equivalent to 2 g per day, yield higher benefits, with a reduction in risk of nonfatal heart attack as well.[2]
Higher doses of EPA+DHA have been shown to raise levels of good cholesterol, called high-density lipoprotein (HDL), which protects against heart disease, and lower levels of triglycerides, which are another predictor of heart-disease risk measured on a cholesterol panel.[3][4] Consumption of fish oil, even at 1 g doses, may reduce systolic blood pressure by up to five points in patients with high blood pressure.[5] Finally, fish oil may protect against heart arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats). Atrial fibrillation (or “A‑fib”) is a common irregularity of heart rhythm, where certain parts of the heart muscle contract in a rapid, ineffective manner; this type of heart irregularity also increases the risk of stroke. Studies have found that having higher blood levels of EPA has been associated with a reduced risk of being diagnosed with a heart condition called atrial fibrillation.[6][7]
References
[No authors listed.] “Dietary supplementation with n‑3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and vitamin E after myocardial infarction: Results of the GISSI-Prevenzione trial. Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Sopravvivenza nell’Infarto miocardico.” Lancet. Vol. 354, No. 9177 (1999): 447–455.
Mozaffarian, D. “JELIS, fish oil, and cardiac events.” Lancet. Vol. 369, No. 9567 (2007): 1062–1063.
Leslie, M.A., et al. “A review of the effect of omega‑3 polyunsaturated fatty acids on blood triacylglycerol levels in normolipidemic and borderline hyperlipidemic individuals.” Lipids in Health and Disease. Vol. 14 (2015): 53.
Lee, T.C., et al. “The impact of polyunsaturated fatty acid-based dietary supplements on disease biomarkers in a metabolic syndrome/diabetes population.” Lipids in Health and Disease. Vol. 13 (2014): 196.
Minihane, A.M., et al. “Consumption of fish oil providing amounts of eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid that can be obtained from the diet reduces blood pressure in adults with systolic hypertension: A Retrospective Analysis.” The Journal of Nutrition. Vol. 146, No. 3 (2016): 516–523.
Virtanen, J.K., et al. “Serum long-chain n‑3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and risk of hospital diagnosis of atrial fibrillation in men.” Circulation. Vol. 120, No. 23 (2009): 2315–2321.
Kumar, S., et al. “Long-term omega‑3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation reduces the recurrence of persistent atrial fibrillation after electrical cardioversion.” Heart Rhythm. Vol. 9, No. 4 (2012): 483–491.
Tweet
Fish Oil and Heart Disease
Related Articles
Health
Magnificent Magnesium
Health
Irritable Colon Syndrome?
Health
Rye Pollen Extract
Categories
Health Recipes Lifestyle & Wellness Naturopathic Currents
Subscribe to our Newsletter
Privacy
English Français
Subscribe
Not Now
Our Latest News Feed
Contact Us
New Roots Herbal Inc.
3405 F.-X.-Tessier
Vaudreuil-Dorion (Québec)
Canada, J7V 5V5
1 800 268-9486
info@newrootsherbal.com
I would like to receive the New Roots Herbal Flourish newsletter.
Stay up-to-date with our natural health products. Enter your e-mail and subscribe to our newsletter.
English Français
Naturopathic Currents Feed
FAQ Terms Disclaimer Privacy Careers Log in
© New Roots Herbal inc. 2019