UTI : Meaning, Causes, Symptoms, Treatment - Medisease
Friday, April 19 2019
Home
About Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Log In
Menu
Home
Medicine
Pregnancy
Health
Disease
Disorders and Diseases
General Health Issues
Auto Immune Disorders
Kids Health
News Update
Sidebar
Random Article
Home/Disorders and Diseases/General Health Issues/UTI : Meaning, Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
Disorders and DiseasesGeneral Health Issues
UTI : Meaning, Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
What is UTI? Meaning, Causes, Symptoms, Pain, Types, Complications, Diagnosis, Treatment and Home remedies of UTI.
medisease December 14, 2018
4 1,118 4 minutes read
UTI -Urinary Track Infection
What is UTI?
UTI is short name of urinary tract infection.
UTI occurs when microbes get into any part of the urinary tract, i.e. the kidneys, ureters, bladder, or urethra.
Commonly urinary tract infection (UTI) occurs mainly in the urethra (urethritis) and bladder (cystitis) i.e. the lower urinary tract. In severe and rare cases, however, urinary tract infection can also occur in the upper urinary tract. Infection in the upper urinary tract typically affects the kidneys (pyelonephritis) and at times the ureters.
Most of the urinary tract infection (UTIs) are caused by bacteria and some are caused by fungi or viruses.
UTI occurs much more frequently in women than in men. The ratio is about 8:1. It means that for every eight women who have UTIs, only one man does.
What are the causes & risk factors of UTI?
UTI occurs when microbes (bacteria, fungi, viruses) enter the urinary tract and start multiplying in the bladder. The risk factors are…
Doing sex with an infected partner
Constipation– It does not allow the bladder to be completely empty and thus giving time to the trapped bacteria to grow
Diabetes- Excess amount of sugar is removed through urine making the environment favorable for bacterial overgrowth
Holding urine for more than 5 to 6 hours which gives time for the bacteria to grow
Dehydration- since the body is not getting enough water to flush the bacteria out of body
Using dirty sanitary pads
Using tampons during menstruation
Kidney stones- It can block the urinary tract and stop the urine from flowing out giving plenty of time to the bacteria to grow
What are the types of UTI?
The different types of UTI can include:
urethritis – infection of the urethra
cystitis – infection of the bladder
pyelonephritis – infection of the kidneys
vaginitis – infection of the vagina
What are the symptoms of UTI?
Urinary tract infection can have specific symptoms depending on which area of the urinary tract has been infected:
Kidneys: Acute pyelonephritis
High Fever
Nausea
Vomiting
Frequent Urination
Painful urination
Chills accompanied by trembling
Upper back and side pain
Bladder: cystitis
Blood in urine
Burning sensation while urination
Frequent Urination
Pain in lower back and abdomen
Pain during sex
Urethra: urethritis
Burning sensation while urination
Discharge from the urethral opening or vagina
Frequent need to urinate
Difficulty starting urination
Blood in semen or urine in men
Pain during sex
Itching
Pain while urinating
UTI Symptoms in Men
Symptoms of an upper tract UTIs in men are similar to those in women. Symptoms of a lower tract UTIs in men sometimes include rectal pain in addition to the common symptoms shared by both men and women.
UTI Symptoms in Women
Women having a lower tract urinary infection may experience pelvic pain. This is in addition symptom to the other common symptoms. Symptoms of upper tract infections among both men and women are same.
Diagnosis of UTI
If you experience any of the above symptoms repeatedly you need to visit a general practitioner. Based on the seriousness of the symptoms the general practitioner may refer you to a urologist or a nephrologist for evaluation.
The tests and procedures used to diagnose UTI include:
Urine test: Analyzing the urine sample in a lab
Urine culture: Growing urinary tract bacteria in a lab to find out what kind of bacteria are causing the infection
Ultrasound
CT scan
MRI
Cystoscopy
What are the complications of UTI?
Complications of Urinary tract infection (UTI) are not common but can be serious when they occur. This can include:
Prostatitis in men: inflammation/swelling of the prostate gland
Kidney infection is known as pyelonephritis, when bacteria travel from the bladder to the kidneys)
Kidney failure (when kidney stones block the urine flow)
Blood poisoning: It is when bacteria spread from the kidneys into the bloodstream and then cause the infection to spread to any part of the body including major organs
What is the treatment for UTI?
The treatment and length of treatment of Urinary tract infection (UTIs) depend on the type of microbe causing the UTI, the severity of your condition, and your overall health condition (for example, if you have other health conditions such as diabetes etc.).
The doctor can prescribe antibiotics and in cases of severe UTIs, the doctor can suggest hospitalization to administer intravenous antibiotics.
What is Chronic UTIs?
Most UTIs can go away after treatment. Chronic UTI either don’t go away even after treatment or keep recurring. Recurrent UTIs are more common among women.
Most cases of recurrent UTIs are from reinfection with the same type of bacteria. But, some recurrent cases don’t necessarily involve the same type of bacteria. Instead, an abnormality in the structure of the urinary tract increases the risk of UTIs.
Home remedies for a UTI
There are no proper home remedies that can cure a UTI completely, but there are some things that you can do to help your medication work better.
These home remedies for urinary track infection may help your body clear the infection faster.
Cranberry juice or cranberries
It can’t treat a UTI once it’s started. But, a chemical in cranberries can help prevent certain types of bacteria that can cause a bacterial UTI from attaching to the lining of your bladder. This is helpful in preventing future UTIs.
UTI prevention
You can take the following steps to help prevent UTIs:
Drink 6 to 8 glasses of water daily.
Don’t hold urine for a long time.
Discuss to your doctor about managing any urinary incontinence and difficulties fully emptying your bladder.
However, some steps may help prevent UTIs in women.
For postmenopausal women, using topical estrogen prescribed by your doctor can make a positive difference in preventing UTIs.
Taking daily cranberry supplements or using vaginal probiotics, like lactobacillus, can also help in the prevention of UTIs.
Certain studies suggest that using probiotic vaginal suppositories may decrease the occurrence and recurrence of UTIs, by changing the bacteria found in the vagina.
UTIs during pregnancy
Pregnant women having symptoms of a UTI should see their doctor right away. UTIs during pregnancy may cause high blood pressure and premature delivery. Urinary track infection during pregnancy is also more likely to spread to the kidneys.
Thank you for reading UTI, You can also read :
Jaundice: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment
Hernia: Causes, Symptoms, Types, Treatment
Gastritis: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment
Sinusitis: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
Spondylosis: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
Vertigo: Meaning, Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
Anemia Definition, Symptoms, Causes, Treatments and Types
How this helpful to you?
I got needed information
Best article on this topic ever
Really Helpful
Overall Rating
For regular updates on health tips, you can join our telegram channel on : http://t.me/medisease
User Rating: 5 ( 1 votes)
Tags
Cystitis disease Pyelonephritis Urethritis Urinary tract infection UTI UTI in Men UTI in Women UTI Pain UTI Symptoms UTI Treatment Vaginitis
Show More
Share
Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn StumbleUpon Tumblr Pinterest Reddit VKontakte Odnoklassniki Pocket WhatsApp Telegram Viber Share via Email Print
Read Next
Multiple Sclerosis: Causes, Symptoms, Diagnosis, Treatment
Auto Immune Disorders
December 24, 2018
Multiple Sclerosis: Causes, Symptoms, Diagnosis, Treatment
Gastritis: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment
General Health Issues
December 8, 2018
Gastritis: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment
HPV Infection : Human Papillomavirus
Virus Infection Disease
December 31, 2018
HPV Infection : Human Papillomavirus
December 24, 2018
Multiple Sclerosis: Causes, Symptoms, Diagnosis, Treatment
December 8, 2018
Gastritis: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment
December 31, 2018
HPV Infection : Human Papillomavirus
medisease
Website
Reasons and Natural remedies for frequent Headache
Benefits of Ginger for illnesses including allergies
Related Articles
Thalassemia: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
2 days ago
Mouth cancer: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
2 weeks ago
Retinal Detachment: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment
2 weeks ago
Glaucoma: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
3 weeks ago
4 Comments
Pingback: Crohn's Disease: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment - Medisease
Pingback: Multiple Sclerosis: Causes, Symptoms, Diagnosis, Treatment - Medisease
Pingback: UTI - Atanus.com
Pingback: UTI | Launchopolis
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Check Also
Close
Acidity meaning Symptoms, Causes, Treatment, and Home Remedies
November 20, 2018
Osteoarthritis: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment
January 16, 2019
Cancer: Symptoms, Causes, Types, Treatment
January 12, 2019
By medisease
Health benefits of Apple tea
27 mins ago
Tooth Infection in Kids
21 hours ago
Thalassemia: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
2 days ago
Pills of Vitamins & Minerals are harmful to Health
4 days ago
New tests discovered for faster treatment of breast cancer.
7 days ago
All (145)
Let's Join us !
Subscribe to our mailing list to get the new updates!
Stay updated with our latest articles
Enter your Email address
Recent Posts
Health benefits of Apple tea
6 mins ago
Tooth Infection in Kids
21 hours ago
Thalassemia: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
2 days ago
Pills of Vitamins & Minerals are harmful to Health
4 days ago
New tests discovered for faster treatment of breast cancer.
7 days ago
Categories
Disorders and Diseases 64
General Health Issues 16
Oncology 11
Auto Immune Disorders 9
Chronic Health Diseases and Conditions 7
Eye Diseases 3
Insomnia 2
Bacterial Infection Disease 1
Health tips 45
Pharma News and Updates 12
Paracetamol 7
Virus Infection Disease 7
NSAIDs – Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 6
Pregnancy 5
kids Health 5
Benzodiazepines 5
Alprazolam 2
Diazepam 3
Medical Terminology 3
Breast Feeding 2
Cefixime 1
Dengue 1
Warfarin 1
Levofloxacin 1
FAQs – Commonly Asked Questions 1
Chikungunya 1
Medicine-Drugs 1
Amazing Medical Facts 1
About Medisease
Medisease is a strong community of Pharmacist, Doctors and Other Healthcare providers and Practitioners. our aim is to provide medical information to common people in a easiest way that people can understand.
Medisease.com is a online platform/website where people can get all information about Medicine uses, Medicine Side effects, Medicine dosage, expert advises, Health and Fitness tips and other amazing facts.
Medisease also covers all kind of diseases and condition where people gets information on symptoms of diseases, cure and care of diseases, home remedies and lifestyle modification for effective treatment by expert doctors panel and so on..
Quick Access
Home
About Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Contact us
Tel: +91 72030 74701
Mobile: +91 96646 88755
E-mail: editor@medisease.com
Enter your Email address
© Copyright 2019, All Rights Reserved | by Medisease
In emergency cases Call Doctor immediately..
Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn WhatsApp Telegram Viber
Back to top button
Close
Search for:
Popular Posts
Benzodiazepines
Alprazolam – dosage, uses, side effects
November 2, 2018
Arthritis: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment
January 21, 2019
Nausea meaning, causes, symptoms, treatments
November 17, 2018
Cefixime – uses, side effects, Dosage, Interaction, warnings
October 25, 2018
Diazepam – Uses, Side effects, dosage, Precautions
October 27, 2018
Most Commented
December 22, 2018
Feeling tired all the time: Hint of 7 Health Problems
November 28, 2018
Tips to be healthy and Fit
October 17, 2018
Paracetamol Uses, Side effects, Dosage, Interaction, Precautions
November 20, 2018
Top 10 foods that reduce bad Cholesterol in your body
December 18, 2018
Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS/ME Disease)
January 1, 2019
Be fit after fifty – Tips for Male
Recent Comments
Health benefits of Apple tea - Medisease
[…] Drinking apple tea in the morning with an empty st...
Health benefits of Apple tea - Medisease
[…] Also read: Benefits of Apple […]...
Tooth Infection in Kids - Medisease
[…] Use natural ingredients like Salt and turmeric [...
Tooth Infection in Kids - Medisease
[…] Health benefits of Pomegranate Juice […]...
Thalassemia: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment - Medisease
[…] Top 10 foods that reduce bad Cholesterol in your b...
Close
Log In
Forget?
Remember me
Log In