Urinary Tract Infections or UTIs: What to Know About Symptoms, Treatment, Prevention | Everyday Health
Search
Log in My Profile
Your Profile
Following Topics
Saved Items
Newsletters
Tools
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Settings
Logout
Subscribe Menu
Main Menu
Conditions
Atrial Fibrillation
Cold and Flu
Depression
Heart Failure
High Cholesterol
Multiple Sclerosis
Psoriasis
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Ulcerative Colitis
View All
Drugs A-Z
Symptom Checker
Healthy Living
Fitness
Food & Nutrition
Sex & Relationships
Sleep
View All
Health Tools
Calorie Counter
Drugs A-Z
Meal Planner
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Recipes
Symptom Checker
Subscribe to Newsletters
clear
Explore Everyday Health
Health A-Z
Drugs
Healthy Living
Food
Everyday Health Urinary Conditions Urinary Tract Infection
Everything You Need to Know About Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)
Symptoms and Diagnosis
Treatment
UTIs In Men
Prevention
Home Remedies
Resources
Surprising Risk Factors
By Holly Pevzner
Medically Reviewed by Sanjai Sinha, MD
Last Updated: 5/3/2018
What Is a Urinary Tract Infection (UTI)?
Urinary tract infections, or UTIs, are the most common type of bacterial infection diagnosed today. (1) While they’re easy to treat with antibiotics, they can still cause a lot of pain and irritation if not caught — and treated — early.
A UTI (also known as a bladder infection) is a common condition that occurs when bacteria migrates into the usually sterile urinary tract and multiplies. If you have a UTI, you’ll typically experience a frequent urge to urinate, even after you’ve just emptied your bladder; a burning sensation during urination; pressure in your lower abdomen; and other symptoms.
continue reading below
Most Recent
Urinary Tract Infections in Men: Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment
Drinking More Water Leads to Fewer Urinary Tract Infections, Study Suggests
7 Surprising Risk Factors for Urinary Tract Infections
Urinary Tract Infection Resources
What Are the Symptoms and Diagnosis of a UTI?
While symptoms of a UTI can vary, it is possible for someone who has an infection to experience no symptoms of a urinary tract infection. For many people, UTI symptoms are uncomfortable and painful. Besides a strong, persistent urge to urinate, common symptoms include:
Pain or burning during urination
Passing only small amounts of urine
Cloudy, strong-smelling urine
Red or pink-tinged urine, indicating the presence of blood
Mucus- or pus-like urethral discharge, usually in men
Incontinence
When a urinary tract infection moves to the kidneys, symptoms — such as fever, shaking, and chills, and pain in the upper back, side, or groin — may occur.
Learn More About Urinary Tract Infection Symptoms and Diagnosis
How to Treat a UTI
UTIs are easily treated, and taking a few precautions can help prevent the infection in the first place.
Antibiotics are the first line of treatment for urinary tract infections. While most UTIs are considered simple or uncomplicated UTIs, the particulars regarding which antibiotics are prescribed — and for how long — depend on factors such as the type of bacteria detected in your urine and your current health.
If you've been treated for a UTI in the past, your doctor may recommend a different antibiotic the next time you get an infection. This is because some types of bacteria that cause UTIs have become resistant to certain antibiotics.
Learn More About Urinary Tract Infection Treatment
What Causes UTIs, and the Different Types You Can Get
UTIs are caused by bacteria entering the urinary tract, which consists of the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra. While any of these parts can become infected, most UTIs involve the lower urinary tract, which includes the bladder (where urine is stored) and the urethra (the tube through which urine passes out of the body). A UTI that infects the bladder is called cystitis; one that infects the urethra is called urethritis. (2)
The majority of UTIs that affect the bladder and the urethra are caused by E. coli or other bacteria that are normally found in the digestive tract, which can travel from the anus to the urethra. UTIs that affect the urethra are also caused by sexually transmitted infections, including herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and mycoplasma. Most of the time, urinating flushes out lingering bacteria in the urethra before it causes problems, though your body isn’t always able to do so. (3)
Less often, UTIs involve the upper urinary tract, which includes the kidneys (the organs that filter liquid waste from the blood and create urine) and the ureters (the tubes that connect the kidneys to the bladder). A UTI infection in the kidneys, called pyelonephritis or a kidney infection, most often begins in the bladder and moves up through the ureters to one or both of the kidneys. In certain cases, a kidney infection can lead to serious health problems. (4)
Most Popular
7 Home Remedies for Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Symptoms
6 Unusual Signs of Dehydration You Should Know About
Hate UTIs? One Simple Step Can Cut the Risk
7 Tips to Help You Stay Hydrated
Getting a UTI While Pregnant May Be More Serious
One’s risk of developing a UTI increases during pregnancy, starting at week 6 through week 24, thanks to a number of factors, including hormonal changes that can make it easier for bacteria to travel into the urinary tract.
In addition, as the uterus grows throughout pregnancy, it can put pressure on the bladder, making it more difficult to empty completely. (8)
Pregnancy can also make a UTI more difficult to treat, which can have serious consequences, including pyelonephritis (when the infection moves to the kidneys); preterm labor; low birth weight; and sepsis.
A urinalysis and a urine culture are routinely performed at an initial prenatal visit to screen for UTIs, but if you're pregnant and suspect you may have an infection, seek medical attention quickly. (9)
Physical Changes Spur Urinary Tract Infections During Menopause
Frequent sexual intercourse is one of the biggest UTI risk factors for younger women. For menopausal women, however, physical changes such as the thinning of vaginal tissue; difficulty fully emptying the bladder; incontinence; and pelvic organ prolapse are the main culprits. (Prolapse is when a pelvic organ, like the bladder, drops and pushes against the walls of the vagina.)
In addition, during menopause, the body produces less estrogen, a hormone that — among other functions — helps keep the bacteria levels in the lining of the bladder and urethra healthy. Vaginal estrogen creams may restore the normal bacterial balance of the vagina, thus helping to stave off recurrent UTIs. (10)
Urinary Tract Infections in Men
Women are usually the ones plagued with irritating urinary tract infection symptoms, but men can develop UTIs, too. In fact, the older a man is, the greater his risk for getting one.
Learn More About Urinary Tract Infections In Men: Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment
Children and Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)
Urinary tract infections are quite common in children. By age 6, 3 to 7 percent of girls and 1 to 2 percent of boys will have had a urinary tract infection.
While UTIs in very young children are often associated with an anatomic abnormality, for others the infection is related to introducing bacteria into the urinary tract. UTIs in children generally peak in infancy and then again between ages 2 and 4, coinciding with potty training.
In newborns, signs of urinary tract infection include poor feeding, lethargy, diarrhea, vomiting, mild jaundice, and fever. For babies younger than 2, foul-smelling urine may also be a sign. For older children, the more classic UTI signs, such as urgency, incontinence, and pain while urinating occur. (11)
Getting a Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Diagnosed
See your general practitioner or an urgent care office as soon as you suspect a UTI. There, you will get a urinalysis, which involves screening a sample of urine for bacteria and blood cells.
In order to ensure a clean urine sample, a physician will likely have you clean your genital area with a special wipe beforehand, and ask that you do a midstream catch of the urine.
Related
Bladder Issues Can Hamper Your Sex Life, a Study Suggests
If you’ve had a prior UTI, your healthcare provider may also order a cystogram (an X-ray of the urinary tract) or a cystoscopic exam, in which a small tube is inserted into the urethra.
If a UTI is diagnosed, you’ll be treated with antibiotics. (12) It’s important to note, however, that false negative results can occur and that almost all women who experience typical UTI symptoms and a negative urine culture actually do have a UTI. (13)
Delaying Treatment for UTIs Can Lead to Complications
Most UTIs cause no lasting damage if they are treated quickly. But if left untreated, UTIs can lead to complications that include:
Recurring infections
Permanent kidney damage
Narrowing of the urethra in men
A potentially life-threatening infection called sepsis, especially when kidneys are infected (called urosepsis)
What You Can Do to Avoid Getting UTIs
There are several steps you can take to reduce your risk of getting a UTI:
Drink plenty of water and other liquids to help flush out bacteria.
Urinate frequently, or about every two to three hours.
For women: Wipe from front to back after urinating or having a bowel movement.
Urinate before and soon after having sexual intercourse.
Avoid synthetic underwear, tight pants, and lingering in wet gym clothes or a bathing suit. Though none of this can cause a UTI, these habits can increase the spread of bacteria.
Avoid vaginal deodorants, douches, powders, and other potentially irritating feminine products.
Use a method of birth control other than a diaphragm, spermicide, or unlubricated condoms.
Besides precautions and at-home strategies to help prevent UTIs, sometimes antibiotics are used as a preventative measure for those with frequent UTI recurrences.
Learn More About Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Prevention
continue reading below
Editor's Picks
Excessive Sitting Can Harm Your Urinary Tract, a New Study Finds
The Health Benefits of Water
Foods You Shouldn't Eat When Treating a UTI
Bladder Issues Can Hamper Your Sex Life
For People With Frequent UTIs, Managing Risk Factors Can Help With Prevention
In some people, urinary tract infections come back again and again. Women, especially, are likely to have recurrent UTIs. While recurrences usually develop within three months of the original infection, having more than two within six months (or three or more within a year) is technically considered a recurrence. Managing risk factors — by maintaining good hygiene practices, such as wiping from front to back for women and avoiding spermicides — can lower your likelihood of repeat UTIs.
Learn More About Home Remedies for Urinary Tract Infections
UTI Resources
Dealing with urinary tract infections, including preventing, diagnosing, and properly treating them, can be overwhelming. Use all the support you can find.
Learn More About Urinary Tract Infection Resources
Additional reporting by Mark Henricks.
Related Conditions
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) Type 2 Diabetes Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Interstitial Cystitis Kidney Stones Genital Herpes Chlamydia Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH)
Risk Factors That Make You More Likely to Get a UTI
UTIs are very common, accounting for more than 10 million doctor visits in the United States each year. (5)
While both men and women of any age can develop a UTI, they’re especially rare in young and middle-aged men. Among adults between ages 20 and 50, UTIs are approximately 50 times more common in women, with 50 to 60 percent of all women developing a UTI at some point during their lifetime. (6) Women get more UTIs than men partly because of the female anatomy. For instance, women have shorter urethras, making it easier for bacteria to enter the bladder.
Having sex more frequently, and with new partners, can also increase a person's risk of developing a UTI. A woman’s urethra is located next to both the vagina and anus, enabling bacteria to easily travel into the urinary tract during sexual intercourse. (A UTI caused by frequent intercourse is sometimes dubbed Honeymoon cystitis.) (7)
Other factors that can increase the risk of a UTI include:
Pregnancy
Perimenopause and menopause
A blocked urinary tract: kidney stones, an enlarged prostate, or benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) can trap urine in the bladder and increase the risk of UTIs
Diabetes: This condition suppresses the immune system, increasing one's vulnerability to UTIs.
Catheter use
Recent urinary surgery
Wearing thong underwear
Learn About More Surprising Risk Factors for Urinary Tract Infections.
Sign up for our Healthy Living Newsletter!
Thanks for signing up for our newsletter! You should see it in your inbox very soon.
Oops! Please enter a valid email address
Subscribe
We respect your privacy.
Resources We
Mayo Clinic National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
Editorial Sources and Fact-Checking
Foxman B. Epidemiology of Urinary Tract Infections: Incidence, Morbidity, and Economic Costs. American Journal of Medicine. July 8, 2002.
Urinary Tract Infection (UTI). Mayo Clinic. August 25, 2017.
Flores-Mireles AL, Walker JN, Caparon M, Hultgren SJ. Urinary Tract Infections: Epidemiology, Mechanisms of Infection and Treatment Options. Nature Reviews Microbiology. April 2015.
Kidney Infection (Pyelonephritis). National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases.
Urinary Tract Infections. National Kidney Foundation.
Al-Badr A, Al-Shaikh G. Recurrent Urinary Tract Infections Management in Women. Sultan Qaboos University Medical Journal. June 2013.
Minardi D, D’Anzeo G, Cantoro D, et al. Urinary Tract Infections in Women: Etiology and Treatment Options. International Journal of General Medicine. April 2011.
Urinary Tract Infection During Pregnancy. American Pregnancy Association. March 10, 2017.
Friel LA. Urinary Tract Infection in Pregnancy. Merck Manual Professional Version. March 2017.
Ricciotti H. “Not Again!” — When UTIs Won’t Quit at Midlife. Harvard Health Publishing. September 25, 2015.
Weinberg GA. Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) in Children. Merck Manual Professional Version. January 2018.
Urinary Tract Infections. Office on Women’s Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. April 27, 2018.
Heytens S, De Sutter A, Coorevits L, et al. Women With Symptoms of a Urinary Tract Infection but a Negative Urine Culture: PCR-Based Quantification of Escherichia coli Suggests Infection in Most Cases. Clinical Microbiology and Infection. September 2017.
See More
The Latest in Urinary Tract Infection
Urinary Tract Infection
Urinary Tract Infections in Men: Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment
Though women are usually the ones plagued with irritating urinary tract infection (UTI) symptoms, men can develop UTIs, too. And the older a man is, t...
Urinary Tract Infection
Drinking More Water Leads to Fewer Urinary Tract Infections, Study Suggests
Antibiotic use for UTIs less frequent in research on recurrent infections.
Urinary Tract Infection
7 Surprising Risk Factors for Urinary Tract Infections
Here’s what you should know about sneaky causes of these miserable infections and what you can do to protect yourself.
Urinary Tract Infection
Urinary Tract Infection Resources
Urinary Tract Infection
How to Prevent Urinary Tract Infections or UTIs
Urinary tract infections, or UTIs, are the most common type of bacterial infection diagnosed today, with more than half of all women experiencing at l...
Urinary Tract Infection
Treatment for Urinary Tract Infections
Antibiotics continue to be the gold standard of treatment for urinary tract infections, being that they are between 80 and 99 percent effective. Most ...
Urinary Tract Infection
Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Symptoms and Diagnosis
Symptoms of a UTI may include a constant urge to urinate, frequent urination, or discomfort while urinating.
Urinary Tract Infection
Excessive Sitting Can Harm Your Urinary Tract, a New Study Finds
If you spend long hours sitting at a desk or you get little to no exercise, your urinary tract could suffer the consequences.
Urinary Tract Infection
7 Home Remedies for Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Symptoms
Do you have frequent, painful UTIs? You may be surprised by how much you can do at home to treat your discomfort.
Urinary Tract Infection
Hate UTIs? One Simple Step Can Cut the Risk
Adding more water to daily routine lowered odds for the infections.
Urinary Tract Infection
New Antibiotic for Bladder Infection Disappoints in Trial
But other drugs can still get the job done, experts say.
Urinary Tract Infection
Antibiotics Beat Cranberries at Fighting Urinary Tract Infections in Study
Protected against recurrence twice as long as cranberry extract pill, researchers say.
Urinary Tract Infection
Antibiotics Beat Cranberries at Fighting Urinary Tract Infections in Study
Protected against recurrence twice as long as cranberry extract pill, researchers say.
Urinary Tract Infection
Is Sex Off-Limits With a Urinary Tract Infection?
It takes time for a urinary tract infection to heal, even with antibiotics to treat it. But do you have to wait until you're in the clear to have sex ...
Urinary Tract Infection
The Link Between UTIs and Sex
One common way women get urinary tract infections is by having sex. But that doesn't mean you have to stay away from sex to prevent infections.
Urinary Tract Infection
Preventive Antibiotics for UTIs?
My mom is 64 and has had multiple sclerosis for over 30 years. She is totally immobile and has been on a catheter for about one year. She has a proble...
Error
Please try again later.
Save
Wellness inspired. Wellness enabled.
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Feedback
Contact Us
Editorial Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Editorial Policy
Feedback
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
Contact Us
More From Ziff Davis: Computer Shopper ExtremeTech Geek AskMen IGN Offers.com Speedtest.net TechBargains Toolbox What to Expect MedPage Today PCMag
© 1996-2019 Ziff Davis, LLC. Everyday Health is among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.