5 Best Himalayan Salt Lamp Reviews – Buying Guide for 2019
Menu
Home
How To
Advice
Pet Care
Gardening
Pest Control
About Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Home
Advice
Himalayan Salt Lamp Reviews – Buying Guide for 2019
Himalayan Salt Lamp Reviews – Buying Guide for 2019
Melanie Dixon Updated: February 14, 2019 No Comments
Himalayan salt lamps are capturing the attention of people who desire to have a beautiful object to decorate their bedrooms or living rooms, yet want one for healing properties too. Many people with anxiety, insomnia, and other mental health conditions believe that the lamp provides soothing and healing benefits.
The Himalayan salt lamp is actually hand-carved from a block of real salt, and has a soft orange, pinkish, or yellowish glow when lit up. Their attractive colour is due to the high concentration of mineral salts inside. The crystal works as a lamp shade, covering a small inner light bulb which is attached to the traditional electrical components of a lamp.
It’s not the purpose of a salt lamp to light your room, but many people do read a book by its light. Some use the salt lamp for a night light as many have dimmer switches to lower the lights to a setting that won’t affect sleep. These lamps can generate both light and heat. Many make the claim that they generate negative ions, which are known in science to clear the air of molds, spores, pet dander, dust, bacteria, viruses, and other airborne pathogens, in addition to generally improving the mood of a person.
Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Really Work?
The concern for many people is whether Himalayan salt lamps really work, as there have been conflicting reports in the news.
Salt is naturally hygroscopic, meaning that it will pull the water vapour from the air directly to the salt in the lamp. Naturally, within the air are pollutants. What happens is that these microscopic pathogens are drawn to the salt lamp, meaning that they’re held in this one location and away from the people in the room.
Note that you must have the light turned on for the lamp to work effectively. The lightbulb will heat up the salt, drying it out, and pulling more moisture in from the air surrounding it.
The salt lamp will release water vapour back into the air, while the airborne particles will remain trapped to the lamp. For this reason, it’s important to clean your lamp on a regular basis.
As for generating negative ions, the amount the lamp generates is so minuscule, so you may not wish to buy one simply for this purpose. It’s photoelectric effect has only a small role in ion generation. And no, you shouldn’t keep it on all the time to increase ion generation, as it’s not good to leave electrical products on all day long.
As for its soothing pink colour, colour therapy has been around for centuries, and pink is known to be the colour that provides tranquility and peace. They even paint prison cells in pink to keep prisoners from becoming angry and agitated. Pink can also be a good colour for a clinical or hospital setting.
There may also be claims that the lamps can reduce electromagnetic radiation, but really, it’s best just to move the electronics out of your bedroom, and keep the salt lamp close to you to experience the maximum benefits.
So yes, a Himalayan salt lamp can definitely provide some basic health benefits, but don’t expect it to cure serious conditions or diseases.
The Benefits of Using a Himalayan Salt Lamp
There are many benefits to using a Himalayan salt lamp. Here are just a few.
Cleans the air to improve breathing. People with allergies and asthma can find these lamps of special benefit.
Increases relaxation. The soothing pink light emitted from the lamp can help the stressed-out person to relax. It will also give them a better chance at focusing, so tasks are completed in a timely manner.
Solves insomnia. Stress and anxiety can both work away at the mind, keeping a person awake at night. The salt lamp will help provide the bedroom with a peaceful glow so you can get a better night’s sleep.
General improvement in health. Each of the body’s systems are linked together. When you can get stress and anxiety under control, your body’s systems will heal and recover, until you see a general improvement in your body’s immune functions and overall health.
Himalayan Salt Lamp Buying Guide
You should purchase the best Himalayan salt lamp that you can afford. When you purchase a quality one you should be getting many years of usage out of it. It’s also important to consider features so your expectations are met.
What Features Should I Consider?
You’ll want to consider the following features before purchasing your lamp.
Colour. Lamps can vary from white, to light pink, and darker pink-orange. Generally, the darker colour means it’s of higher quality. For colour therapy, a darker colour is best.
Size. Consider a smaller lamp for your workspace. If you’re buying for your bedroom, you can choose one of around 6 to 8 pounds. For larger rooms, consider a heavier one of up to 12 pounds.
Shape. Salt lamps are generally a circular or oval shape, though you can find fancy shapes such as square or pyramid.
There are also some other considerations before purchasing your Himalayan salt lamp. Generally, salt lamps are attached to a base. You’ll want it to be strong and steady. You’ll also want to consider your country’s electrical safety rating. On/off switches and dimmer switches may also be helpful.
Where to Buy a Himalayan Salt Lamp?
You can’t simply walk into a big box store and expect to buy a Himalayan salt lamp. Here are some tips on where to look.
Local natural foods or vitamins and supplements shops.
Online wellness stores.
Amazon.
5 Top Himalayan Salt Lamp Reviews
Here are 5 of the best Himalayan salt lamps on the market today. Carefully read through the reviews to find the best one for you.
1. WBM Himalayan Glow Hand-Carved Natural Crystal Himalayan Salt Lamp
Features :
Large oval orange lamp.
Brown natural neem wood base.
Includes 25 watt light bulb.
Lighted lamp has a calming amber colour.
UL safety-approved.
The WBM Himalayan Glow Lamp has been hand-carved from natural salt crystals from the Himalayas. No two lamps are the same but once the lamp has been lit, it will emit a soothing amber colour.
This lamp will brighten your room while the salt crystals will help to purify the air. The lamp sits sturdily on its neem wood base. The dimmer switch can be used to soften or brighten the glow depending on time of day. The emission of positive ions will provide you with a slight boost of energy.
This lamp is about 11 pounds in weight, and measures 5” x 5” x 9 inches. The cord on this lamp is six feet long, and it comes with a 25 watt lightbulb, and a rotary dimmer switch. The neem wood is sourced from India.
2. Crystal Decor Dimmable Hand-Crafted Natural Himalayan Salt Lamp
Features :
Oval salt crystal on brown wooden circular base.
Available in a wide range of sizes from 6 inches to 13 inches.
Acts as an air purifier to clear the air of allergens.
Natural light that provides relaxing properties.
Each hand-carved crystal lamp is unique.
You’ll be able to bring the benefits of visiting the Himalayan mountains to your home with this Crystal Decor natural Himalayan salt lamp. You can set it up in any room of your home to provide it with a natural look. The lamp emits a soothing glow which will naturally calm you down after a long day.
There are three different settings on the dimmer switch: low light, full brightness, and off. Low light can be used for a night light in your bedroom, and full brightness can be used during the day.
This lamp weighs about 5.2 pounds and measures 9.6” x 5.4” x 5.2 inches. It takes one 15 watt bulb.
3. HemingWeigh Natural Himalayan Rock Salt Lamp
Features :
Tall oval shape over circular brown wood base.
About 6 to 19 pound lamp.
Handcrafted from genuine Himalayan crystal.
Lights up with soft amber glow.
Conforms to all electrical safety ratings.
The HemingWeigh rock salt lamp provides some negative ions which counteract negative feelings, with natural air purifying properties to prevent you from getting sick. Makes air safer and cleaner to breath.
This salt lamp has been sourced from the evaporated salt beds beneath the Himalayan Mountains. Over time it’s compressed into a solid salt rock that becomes tough and durable. No two salt lamps will ever be quite the same. The lamps are cut but never polished, leaving a hollow spot inside for the light bulb.
Salt lamps can be placed beside your computer to keep you calm during work. They can provide a boost to your immune system. This lamp weighs around six pounds and measures 8” x 8” x 5 inches. This lamp only has an on/off function.
4. Levoit Elora Hand-Carved Natural Himalayan Crystal Salt Lamp
Features :
Medium orange-pink glow.
Negative ions fight fatigue and sluggishness.
High-quality salt lamp with AA-level salt crystals direct from Himalayas.
Better light transmission with fewer defects and faults in salt crystal.
Sturdy stainless steel base.
The Levoit Elora hand-carved lamp can be operated through touch controls to suit your mood and needs. Simply press and hold the touch control to adjust the light to your choosing. This lamp has been built with a moisture guard so that the stainless steel is protected.
This lamp provides holistic benefits so that you’ll feel less fatigue and stress. It’s made from high quality materials, and its craftsmanship is excellent.
This lamp is FCC, CE-approved, and includes the bulb in the package. The lamp weighs eight pounds and measures about 11.3” x 7.1” x 7.1 inches.
5. Rakaposhi Natural Himalayan Salt Rock Lamp
Features :
Oval shape over black base.
Helps to clean and deodorize the air.
Reduces allergy and asthma symptoms.
Handmade from naturally-carved salt rock from Himalayans, Pakistan.
Natural variations in salt weight, size, colour, and shape so no two alike.
This Rakaposhi natural salt lamp has a rougher tall oval shape for those preferring a more natural design. The Himalayan salt will help to cleanse the air, making it cleaner for people who are suffering from colds or allergies. It can also help to relieve asthma symptoms.
The soft glow of this lamp will assist you in calming down after a long hard day at work so you’ll sleep better. It emits negative ions into the air which will help give your body a boost in its immune response.
This lamp weighs 12 pounds and about 5” x 5” x 12 inches. It has a deeper red colour and takes a 15 watt bulb which is included in the box. It’s meant for indoor use only, and best for the bed or living area, rather than a bathroom where moisture may be present.
Are There Any Salt Lamp Dangers?
Since this salt lamp is electrical you should use the same cautions as with any electrical appliance in order to avoid shocks or fires.
Follow the instructions on the product packaging.
Use your lamp indoors and away from kitchen or bathroom where there’s too much moisture.
Do not leave your salt lamp plugged in and unattended. Unplug before going out.
Care & Safety Tips
The Himalayan salt lamp is easy to look after, but due to its hygroscopic properties, it does need to be cleaned on a regular basis.
Store your lamp in its box when not in use to prevent breakage.
Keep your lamp on a sturdy table away from pets.
Unplug your lamp and use a damp washcloth to wipe its surface. Let dry before plugging back in again.
Final Thoughts
Now that you understand the properties and features of a Himalayan salt lamp, you can be better informed on how to choose the right one for your home. The Himalayan salt lamp can provide you with some great mental and physical health benefits, as well as providing your bedroom or living space with a touch of elegance.
Facebook
Prev Article Next Article
Related Posts
5 Best Laminate Floor Cleaners to Make Your Life Simpler
Melanie Dixon August 1, 2017
5 Best Stud Finders & Features to Consider When Buying them
Melanie Dixon January 30, 2017
5 Best Digital Bathroom Scales – Bathroom Scales Reviews
Melanie Dixon January 12, 2017
Mattress Covers for Bed Bugs – What Products Work Best?
Melanie Dixon May 16, 2017
Air Wick V.I.Poo Toilet Perfume Spray for a Fresh Bathroom
Melanie Dixon January 29, 2018
Quick Tips: How to Clean Hardwood Floors with Vinegar
Melanie Dixon November 7, 2017
About The Author
Mel Dawn
More from this Author
For an inexplicable reason, Mel Dawn moved into New Westminster and never left. She’s a professionally published online content writer who also enjoys writing speculative fiction. Besides numerous published articles and short stories she also has two published books under her full name of Melanie Dixon: The Aquaria Chronicles; and Just One More Purr: Chronic and Terminal Illness Support for Cats and the Humans Who Love Them.
Add Comment
Cancel reply
Recent Posts
Bayer Seresto Collar for Dogs Decoded and Debunked
Bissell Pet Stain Eraser Review – Buying Guide for 2019
How Coconut Oil Can Help Soothe & Heal Dog’s Paws
How Peppermint Oil Is a Safe & Natural Flea Repellent?
Coconut Oil for Dog’s Itchy Skin – How Effective Is It?
Colloidal Silver for Dogs – Benefits and How to Use It?
How Tea Tree Oil Can Easily Repel Fleas On Your Pets
5 Best Clumping Cat Litters for a Fresher Smelling Home
Choosing the Best Citronella Candles for Mosquito Control
Popular Posts
How Coconut Oil Works As The Best …
Coffee Grounds for Plants – Everything You …
Is It Worth Using Calcium Nitrate for …
The Best Crabgrass Killer – How To …
The Complete Guide to Using Diatomaceous Earth …
Capstar Pills for Flea Treatment – How …
Diatomaceous Earth for Bed Bugs – Complete …
Thermacell Mosquito Repellent Reviews – How Effective …
Ground Ivy Control Methods – How to …
Copyright © 2016 - 2019 | Complete Homemaker
About Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Terms of Service
Contact Us