How often do those baking soda treatments really work?
Skip to content
Lode Plus
How often do those baking soda treatments really work?
You’d be surprised how many websites say that baking soda can be used as a possible “cancer cure or treatment.” Is there any validity to these claims? How often do some of these remedies work? And who can you go to in order to research claims or read scientific studies of what baking soda can do for the human body?
No one can legally claim a food-related cure for any disease or the FDA will quickly be on your back because the FDA says that only a ‘drug’ can cure, not a food product, plant extract, not a salt, or any other mineral, let alone baking soda. Also see the site, Tullio Simoncini, MD. And check out, Anti-Cancer Diet. Do any of these therapies work, and for whom? Are they safe or dangerous? Those are the questions consumers ask most frequently.
So, is it the wild West out there online when it comes to uses of baking soda (sodium bicarbonate)? If you search the web for cancer cures using foods, or ingredients that might go into foods, you’ll find more than 400 so-called cancer cures, but the question is whether any actually work? And do people who have exhausted all convention medical means of getting rid of their problem turn to foods as a last choice? Of these so-called ‘food’ cures, what’s the rate that any of these people have been helped in the long term?
Why are people walking away from conventional medicine when it no longer works and trying everything researchable in the field of natural allopathic medicine? And how many people are getting into trouble for exercising their right to free speech versus offering educational information that isn’t supposed to take the place of a physician?
Check out Transdermal Magnesium Therapy and Cancer by Mark Sircus Ac., O.M.D. Also see the site, Magnesium For Life | Transdermal Magnesium Chloride Therapy.
What happens when a physician diagnoses someone who goes through treatments and isn’t responding? Do people turn to food as a last resort, as a last hope? And are some of the foods discussed online as cures or treatments based on research? What’s safe when it comes to using food as medicine? See, FAQ – What is the Cesium Chloride Cure Rate?
Let’s take one interesting so-called ‘cure,’ online with the objective to alkalize your body with baking soda. It’s called the baking soda cure. And in the past some of the doctors who used baking soda to ‘cure’ cancer got into real trouble with the law.
Is the theory behind using baking soda to alkalize a part of your body have any real cure rates? There’s one interesting article online to explore, “Bicarbonate of Soda Used to Cure Stage Four Prostate Cancer,” by Paul Fassa, published on Nov. 13, 2009.
Wouldn’t it be great if you could talk to or read testimony from patients and then checked out their genetics and/or blood type to see whether there’s a tendancy for say, type O blood to fend off cancer more quickly than say, type A, just to make a hypothesis? You’d have to look at studies to see what blood types or genetic dispositions allow one person to get cured of cancer.
Would it be diet, lifestyle, or DNA? For example why are people with type AB or A blood more susceptible to stomach cancer than those with type B or O blood? Less digestive enzymes in old age or other factors? See articles, Yes, your blood group DOES affect your health | Mail Online and Eat Right 4 Your Type – Vanderbilt University.
Also, take a look at the uTube video, How To Make Baking Soda Molasses Cancer Protocol Solutions. Check out Articles by Paul Fassa. You might want to take a look at other articles discussing the miracle-type ‘cures’ of baking soda to see whether they have worked for many or few people. The idea behind using baking soda is that when you take it, the result is supposed to be that your pH level is supposed to go into the alkaline range. Cancer is supposed to grow in mainly an acidic environment in your body. So the so-called ‘cure’ is to alkalinize your body.
You might want to check out information about how Dr. Mark Sircus refers to oncology`s use of bicarbonate of soda in conjunction with chemotherapy to help protect vital organs from that poison. He asserts that all chemo patients would die without it. Dr. Sircus prefers using drips to get bicarbonate solutions into cancerous areas. Check out the articles, Sodium Bicarbonate, Article by Dr. Mark Sircus, and Articles Dr. Mark Sircus.
According to the IMVA publications website, “Dr. Mark Sircus, one of the most prolific writers in medicine, holds the honorary title of doctor of Oriental medicine and was one of the first nationally certified acupuncturists in the United States. He was trained in acupuncture and oriental medicine at the Institute of Traditional Medicine in Santa Fe, N.M., and in the School of Traditional Medicine of New England in Boston. He served at the Central Public Hospital of Pochutla, in Mexico.
“For many years he has been researching into the human condition and into the causes of disease. His primary focus in recent years has been the study of environmental toxicity and iatrogenic diseases. He has written extensively on the poisons in the environment, in our foods, medicines and dental practices. Dr. Sircus is the director of the International Medical Veritas Association (IMVA), which is advocating radical changes in orthodox medicine.
“His research and writings bring forth information that others wish to be hidden and he is without doubt “a flame of wonderful insight” and many are thankful for his wisdom and courage. Some people think him a genius in his own right and “his methods of attacking chronic disease beautiful and to the point.” You might want to check out the e-book, Sodium Bicarbonate – Rich Man’s Poor Man’s Cancer Treatment. Or see the Kindle book edition on Amazon, Sodium Bicarbonate – Rich Man’s Poor Man’s Cancer Treatment.
Is the FDA or the government going after anyone in any given situation who even talks about the so-called poor man’s cancer treatment using natural foods? What about people who use not just baking soda but also magnesium as cures for a variety of health issues? Do any of these food-cures really work? Has anyone been cured for many years? Also see the uTube video, Sodium Bicarbonate and Cancer Treatment – Mark Sircus, Ac., OMD.
But what good does baking soda do if you eat it? It only will touch your digestive system as it passes in small amounts. Baking soda does have anti fungal action. But what’s in the baking soda that cures–the anti-fungal agent? If cancers are growing in Candida yeast overgrowth in the body, does the baking soda get rid of the yeast growths? Also, the yeast cell is very close to what a cancer cell looks like. Is Candida the cancer`s source? And does getting rid of fungus, also get rid of cancer?
Interestingly, a lot of doctors got in trouble in the past for using so-called cures that the government didn’t approve of, even if the cures were made from food. For example, how many doctors in the past lost their licenses or were ‘punished’ or ‘fined’ for telling patients to use certain types of enemas from foods of various kinds? When it comes to baking soda in small amounts, scientists have found it helped people with kidney disease. Check out the site, Bicarbonate of Soda Used to Cure Stage Four Prostate Cancer.
How Baking Soda Helps Prevent Worsening of Kidney Disease
Also view the article, “Baking Soda Prevents Kidney Disease, Renal Failure and Kidney Dialysis.” The study indicates that baking soda prevents a worsening of kidney disease and renal failure in patients already with kidney disease. Baking soda has been shown to slow the decline of kidney function in CKD, according to a study published in the current issue of the Journal of the American Society of Nephrology (JASN). Scientists note the difference between sodium bicarbonate and sodium chloride regarding effects on the body in small amounts.
In that study, scientists studied 134 patients with advanced CKD and low bicarbonate levels, a condition known as metabolic acidosis. One group of these patients was treated with a small daily dose of sodium bicarbonate in tablet form, in addition to their usual care.
As a result of the small daily baking soda dose, the rate of decline in kidney function was dramatically reduced in these patients. According to the study, “overall, the decline was about two-thirds slower than in patients not given sodium bicarbonate.” Also see the article, “Study Indicates Diet Soda Increases Heart Disease Risk.”
Interestingly, in patients taking sodium bicarbonate, the rate of decline in kidney function “was similar to the normal age-related decline.” Perhaps this study also shows how the human body reacts to the difference between one type of sodium, (sodium bicarbonate also known as baking soda) and sodium chloride found in common table salt.
The Journal of the American Society of Nephrology (JASN) reported that a small daily dose of baking soda could prevent kidney damage and chronic kidney disease. See the abstract of the study, “Bicarbonate Supplementation Slows Progression of CKD and Improves Nutritional Status.”
For those without kidney conditions, a small daily dose of baking soda also can come by way of brushing your teeth with it. See: “Baking soda can clean your teeth, clear your complexion and act as a natural antacid.”
Can a very small amount of baking soda prevent kidney disease in some? For further information on the study with baking soda and kidney patients, see the article, “Baking Soda Prevents Kidney Disease, Renal Failure and Kidney Dialysis.”
Baking soda tooth and mouth wash
In Sacramento, during World War II, to save money, and possibly due to other rations, people were advised to brush their teeth with salt and water and rinse their mouth with salt and water or baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) and water. This method had been used in Sacramento and other areas since the Civil War.
Is this the most cost-effective and safe way of cleaning your mouth without destroying your tooth enamel, even though baking soda is abrasive? In Sacramento, most dentists will send you home with a note to rinse several times with salt and water, just after you had a tooth extracted. What can a salt and water mouth rinse do for your gums and teeth?
It is the cheapest and safest way to clean your mouth as long as you don’t swallow the salty water, especially if you’re sensitive to salt. But will brushing your teeth also with salt and water or baking soda and water also balance your mouth and contribute to getting your teeth healthier, perhaps also getting rid of the plaque each day as well?
You notice how some food products work as well as many commercial products? During WW II, many army doctors advised their soldiers to brush with baking soda and water or even warm salt and water and use plain salt and water as a mouthwash. It worked as well as a lot of toothpaste types for many of the men and women in the military and was inexpensive.
Using salt, usually sea salt dissolved in water as a mouthwash may be just as good as buying commercial types of mouthwash or even toothpaste. Baking soda is an abrasive, like salt, but not as rough on your teeth. you only need a little (1/4 teaspoon) on a wet brush, and be gentle. Don’t use an abrasive tooth cleanser to tear your gums. Keep some sea salt in a covered salt shaker so it stays dry and is easy to shake out.
Check out the website were eight holistic dentists offer their advice. See, How to ditch your dentist: eight holistic dentists offer advice to keep you out of their chairs. The website advises people to take enough vitamin C and also reports, “Salt, baking soda, and peroxide make the best paste I’ve seen for a clean, healthy mouth,” says Grant Layton, D.D.S., director of the Environmental Dental Association. (The paste won’t taste very good, he warns.)
This inexpensive paste is naturally and safely abrasive and will help keep the bacteria levels in your mouth under control. Wet a toothbrush with a solution of water and peroxide (1 part water to 1 part peroxide). Then dip the brush in a mixture of half salt and half baking soda and brush.”
Another site notes that peroxide and baking soda might cause cancer, eats away at tooth enamel, and advises readers to dilute the peroxide if they do use it. See the website, Should i use baking soda and hydrogen peroxide to brush my teeth?
So, if baking soda, be it abrasive has been used since the Civil War to brush soldier’s teeth along with plain, diluted salt and water, keep on researching these sites. You may find that salt does get rid of microbes. But then again, you want to keep your mouth alkaline.
Too much alkaline in your mouth may contribute to gum disease and too much acid in your mouth may contribute to tooth decay. Balance is what you want. See the site, Baking Soda & Gum Disease | Livestrong.com. Also see, Toothpaste: Doing more harm than good? and Natural Methods for Keeping Teeth White when You Can’t Afford a Dentist.
References
Vernon Johnston`s Story: PH Kills Cancer site
Dr. Mark Sircus Ac., O.M.D.
Cancer Tutor Website
Independent Cancer Research Foundation
Related
The media really doesn’t want Paul because the media doesn’t want to really work
‘Those n-words were really fighting’–Norton’s description of Lyle-Foreman brawl
Review: You really, really need to see ‘Twilight: Breaking Dawn’ this weekend
© 2019 Lode Plus · Contact · Privacy