How I lost weight?
How to lose weight fast
Home
Policy Privacy
Sitemap
RSS
Best way to lose weight
How to lose weight fast for women
How to lose weight fast for men
How to lose weight with exercise
Weight loss diet for man and women
Weight loss plans
Health Care
Ask and Answer
Home » Ask and Answer » How I lost weight?
How I lost weight?
Author: admin | Posted in Ask and Answer No comments
“How I lost weight?” – A question that more and more people ask themselves and go online search for answer. On the Internet you can find a lot of tips to do crazy things, which are mostly without scientific basis. However, over the years, scientists have been looking for and proven some of the best ways to lose weight.
Here are 26 weight loss tips that have been scientifically proven to answer your “How I lost weight?” question.
1. Drink water, especially before meals
Dietary advice for weight loss is fundamental, because water will increase metabolism by 24 to 30% over a period of 1-1.5 hours, which will help us burn more calories.
One study showed that drinking half a liter of water about 30 minutes before eating causes us to eat less and increase our ability to lose weight by 44%.
2. Breakfast with eggs
Studies show that when eating eggs for breakfast instead of starchy foods, we will consume less calories over the next 36 hours, as well as lose weight and fat. You can replace eggs with any protein of the same quality, the same effect achieved.
3. Drink coffee, especially black coffee
Coffee contains many antioxidants and is beneficial for health. Caffeine in coffee can increase metabolism by 3-11% and increase fat burning rate by 10-29%.
The only thing you need to keep in mind is to choose quality coffees (do not mix) and do not add too much sugar or anything high in calories to your coffee, as they will lose the weight loss benefits of coffee.
4. Drink green tea
As with coffee, green tea also has the effect of losing weight. Although it contains only small amounts of caffeine, green tea contains a very good antioxidant called catechins, which works in combination with caffeine to enhance the fat burning process.
5. Use coconut oil to cook
Coconut oil is good for health, as it contains high levels of a particular fatty substance called medium chain triglyceride.
This fat boosts metabolism by an additional 120 calories per day, as well as reducing appetite, which reduces total calorie intake by 256 units per day.
Note that the fat loss of coconut oil is only promoted when we use it instead of conventional grease for cooking, rather than just sprinkling coconut oil on cooked food.
6. Add glucomannan
Glucomannan is a type of soluble fiber that helps to lose weight that have been mentioned in many recent studies.
Glucomannan will absorb water and stay in the intestines for a while, giving us a feeling of fullness, from which to eat less.
Some studies have shown that people take glucomannan supplements on diets lose more weight than those who do not.
7. Eat less sugar
Sugar is the type of food that modern diets stay away from. People who eat sugar (or high-sweet corn syrup) are more likely to be obese, type 2 diabetes, heart disease and many other diseases.
If you want to lose weight, cut back on the amount of sugar you consume, and make sure you read the package carefully, as many weight-loss products also contain lots of sugar.
8. Reduce refined carbohydrates
Refined carbohydrates often contain sugar or grains that have been stripped of most fiber and nutrients (such as white bread or pasta).
Refined carbohydrates increase blood sugar levels, leading to appetite and increase the amount of food we feed on our bodies, which in turn causes obesity.
9. Low-carb diets
If you want to lose weight in a way that limits carbohydrates, consider low-carb diets.
Many studies have shown that this diet can help you lose 2-3 times more weight than regular low fat diets and still maintain your health.
(Read more: Weight loss diet)
10. Use smaller bowls
It sounds a bit odd, but some studies have shown that eating small size dishes can help people automatically eat less calories loaded into the body.
11. Control your menu and calorie intake
Menu control, or control of calorie intake from food, is a powerful way to lose weight.
Keeping a diary of what you eat or taking pictures of your meals can help you lose weight, as this action helps you increase awareness of what you will put into your mouth.
12. Have healthy food around you
Keeping healthy foods at near distance will reduce your ability to eat things that are not good for your hunger.
Simple snacks you can prepare include fresh fruits, nuts, carrots, yogurt or 1-2 boiled eggs.
13. Brush your teeth after dinner
Brushing and flossing right after dinner will make you feel less willing to eat some snacks late at night.
14. Eat Spicy Food
Spicy dishes contain capsaisin, a compound that enhances metabolism and reduces appetite.
15. Aerobic exercise
Aerobic exercise is a great way to burn calories, improve your physical and mental health, and be especially effective if you want to lose belly fat. (Read more: How to lose weight with exercise)
16. Weightlifting
One of the downsides of dieting is to reduce muscle and slow down metabolism, leading to appetite.
The best way to combat this is to do resistance exercises like lifting weights.
Research shows that weight lifting helps in the body’s metabolism, which is always high and beneficial to maintaining muscle.
17.Eat more fiber
This is one of the most popular weight loss tips. Dietary fiber, especially high-viscosity vegetables, increases satiety and helps you manage your weight over time.
18. Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables
Vegetables and fruits are low in calories but they are high in fiber. They also contain lots of water, which means they have less energy, and feel more saturated.
Studies show that people who eat more vegetables and fruits are less likely to gain weight.
19. Chew carefully
The brain takes a long time to realize that you have eaten enough or not. Chewing slowly and slowly will help you eat less, and increase the production of hormones that are beneficial for weight loss.
20. Sleep in moderation
Sleeping with weight loss is as important as eating healthy or exercising.
Inadequate sleep is one of the highest risk factors for obesity, with 89% in children and 55% in adults.
21. Control your appetite
A 2014 study found that 19.9% of the 196,211 people surveyed met the criteria of a food addict.
If you always have appetite and can not control your appetite, chances are you are in the same boat.
If this is your case, seek help, as all weight loss efforts will fail if you do not resolve the problem.
22. Eat more protein
Protein is the most important nutrient to take care of when losing weight. A diet rich in protein will increase your metabolism by 80-100 calories a day, as well as help you reduce calorie intake by up to 441 units a day.
One study found that 25 percent of the calories in a protein would reduce food consumption by about 60 percent and halve the need for late-night snacks.
Increasing dietary protein intake is one of the easiest and most effective ways to lose weight.
23. Add whey protein
If you find it difficult to increase the amount of protein in your diet, add whey protein. Researchers say whey protein helps to lose weight, while helping to boost muscle strength.
24. Do not use high-calorie drinks such as soda or canned juices
Sugar is not good for your weight, and sugar in beverages is worse.
High sugar drinks increase the risk of childhood obesity by 60% if consumed daily.
Sugar is not good for your weight, and sugar in beverages is worse.
High sugar drinks increase the risk of childhood obesity by 60% if consumed daily.
Canned fruit juices are no better than cans, as they also contain the same amount of sugar as can of Cocacola.
25. Eat “real food”
If you want to have a good body and good health, eat “real food,” which is less processed before being sold.
These foods give you a sense of fullness, and it is very difficult to gain weight if you build a diet based on them.
26. Do not “diet” but eat healthy
One of the biggest problems of dieting is that they do not work in the long run – dieters are more likely to gain weight in the future.
Therefore, instead of “dieting,” set the goal of becoming a healthier, happier and more beautiful body.
Provide enough nutrients for your body instead of starving it. And you will see your weight drop naturally.
So I have introduced all 26 tips to lose weight simple and effective. Hopefully after reading this article you no longer have to ask yourself the question: How I lost weight?
Tweet
Pin It
Related Posts
Does running make you lose weight or help you lose a stomach?
How to get motivation to lose weight?
How will health care be affected by legalizing marijuana?
Why do kids become overweight and maybe even obese?
Add Your Comment
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website
CAPTCHA Code *
Categories
Ask and Answer
Best way to lose weight
Health Care
How to lose belly fat
How to lose weight fast for men
How to lose weight fast for women
How to lose weight with exercise
Weight loss diet for man and women
Weight loss plans
Recent Posts
5 best ideas to lose weight with vegetables at home
5 weight loss ideas of the teenagers
Weight loss ideas right from the kitchen
Secret of why you lose weight is not successful
Do you know why you can not lose weight successfully?
Recent Comments
Kimber on Cabbage soup diet
Brigette on Cabbage soup diet
Shantae on 50 Bodyweight Exercises You Can Do Anywhere
Marta on 9 simple ways to lose weight fast
fat loss on How to lose weight fast for teenage girls?
Howtoloseweightfaste.com
There are numerous diet plans that can tell you how to lose weight fast. Some work better than others for fast weight loss, some are easier to stick to than others, and some are less expensive than others. Check out the diets of Howtoloseweightfaste.com, find the one that is right for you, check with your doctor, and get his or her approval before starting. Losing weight fast is the jump start many people need to begin a diet. Good luck with the one you choose, you CAN lose weight fast with the plan that works for YOU!
Tag Cloud
alcohol balance benefit blood body calories care cholesterol control diet disease drink eat energy exercise fat fitness food fruit goal gym health health care healthy lifestyle lose weight lose weight fast low-carb meal meat motivation muscle nutrition overweight plan protein routine sugar system vegetable vegetarian vitamins water weight weight loss
Popular Search Terms
khloe kardashian weight loss
exercise
how to lose weight fast for teens
how to lose weight for teenage girls
black girls workout too cabbage soup recipe
How to lose weight fast Copyright © 2019.
Designed by MageHit Back to Top ↑