Ginger – Healthy Reasons to Use | Magic Advice
— Main Menu —Main Beauty	- Hair Care - Make Up - Nails Trends - Tattoo & Body Art Education Fashion	- Style Guide - Trends Health	- Diet - Fitness - Food Entertainment	- Life Style - Tech - World Relationships	- Man-Woman - Parenting Science Skin Care Advice	- Acne - Anti Aging - Body Care - Dry Skin - Men’s Skincare - Eye Care - Non Surgical Treatments - Oily Skin Sport
Main
Beauty
Hair Care
Make Up
Nails Trends
Tattoo & Body Art
Education
Fashion
Style Guide
Trends
Health
Diet
Fitness
Food
Entertainment
Life Style
Tech
World
Relationships
Man-Woman
Parenting
Science
Skin Care Advice
Acne
Anti Aging
Body Care
Dry Skin
Men’s Skincare
Eye Care
Non Surgical Treatments
Oily Skin
Sport
Ginger – Healthy Reasons to Use
Posted On 21 Nov 2015
By :
Comments: 890
Tag: Ginger, health, Spices
Ginger is among the healthiest (and most delicious) spices on the planet.
It is loaded with nutrients and bioactive compounds that have powerful benefits for your body and brain.
Here are 11 health benefits of ginger that are supported by scientific research:
1. Contains Gingerol, a Substance With Powerful Medicinal Properties
Ginger is a flowering plant that originated from China.
It belongs to the Zingiberaceae family, and is closely related to turmeric, cardomon and galangal.
The rhizome (underground part of the stem) is the part commonly used as a spice. It is often called ginger root, or simply ginger.
It has a very long history of use in various forms of traditional/alternative medicine. It has been used to help digestion, reduce nausea and help fight the flu and common cold, to name a few.
It can be used fresh, dried, powdered, or as an oil or juice, and is sometimes added to processed foods and cosmetics. It is a very common ingredient in recipes.
The unique fragrance and flavor of ginger come from its natural oils, the most important of which is gingerol.
Gingerol is the main bioactive compound in ginger, responsible for much of its medicinal properties. It has powerful anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects (1).
Bottom Line: It is a popular spice. It is high in gingerol, a substance with powerful anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties.
2. Can Treat Many Forms of Nausea, Especially Morning Sickness
Appears to be highly effective against nausea (2).
For example, it has a long history of use as a sea sickness remedy, and there is some evidence that it may be as effective as prescription medication (3).
Ginger may also relieve nausea and vomiting after surgery, and in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy.
But it may be the most effective when it comes to pregnancy-related nausea, such as morning sickness.
According to a review of 12 studies that included a total of 1,278 pregnant women, 1.1-1.5 grams of it can significantly reduce symptoms of nausea (6).
However, ginger had no effect on vomiting episodes in this study.
Although is considered safe, talk to your doctor before taking large amounts if you are pregnant. Some believe that large amounts can raise the risk of miscarriage, but there are currently no studies to support this.
Bottom Line: 1-1.5 grams of ginger can help prevent various types of nausea. This applies to sea sickness, chemotherapy-related nausea, nausea after surgery and morning sickness.
3. Ginger May Reduce Muscle Pain and Soreness
Ginger has been shown to be effective against exercise-induced muscle pain.
In one study, consuming two grams of it per day, for 11 days, significantly reduced muscle pain in people performing elbow exercises (7).
Ginger does not have an immediate impact, but may be effective at reducing the day-to-day progression of muscle pain (8).
These effects are believed to be mediated by the anti-inflammatory properties.
Bottom Line: It appears to be effective at reducing the day-to-day progression of muscle pain, and may reduce exercise-induced muscle soreness.
4. The Anti-Inflammatory Effects Can Help With Osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a common health problem.
It involves degeneration of the joints in the body, leading to symptoms like joint pain and stiffness.
In a controlled trial of 247 people with osteoarthritis of the knee, those who took ginger extract had less pain and required less pain medication More Info.
About the Author
Previous Story
Antioxidants & Free Radicals
Next Story
Everything about Green Tea
Related Posts
899
Everything about Green Tea
Posted On 21 Nov 2015
, By
855
Antioxidants & Free Radicals
Posted On 21 Nov 2015
, By
834
Cook With Garlic
Posted On 19 Nov 2015
, By
788
Caffeine And Weight Loss
Posted On 18 Nov 2015
, By
Beauty
Education
Entertainment
Health
Fashion
Skin Care Advice
Science
Sport
Popular Post
Everything about Green Tea
899 Comments
Benefits of Turmeric Root Powder - Curcuma Longa
881 Comments
Antioxidants & Free Radicals
855 Comments
Latest Post
The Best Online Pharmacy. Buy Cialis Without Prescription - Orders-Cialis.info
Posted On12 Apr 2016
Kidney Patients Advice How to Revive a Fistula
Posted On11 Apr 2016
High Blood Pressure - Ways to Controle Without Medication
Posted On03 Apr 2016
Archives
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015