Curlie - Health: Alternative: Magnetic Therapy
Help
Forums
Login
Information and education about magnets and their effects on health. Consider using magnets together with other medical and alternative approaches.
More information
Biomagnetips
Magnetic therapy as an alternative health option, comments, suggestions, and reviews.
Neuronetics
Overview of a new, non-invasive treatment for major depressive disorder.
TMS Center of Colorado
Treatment for major depressive disorder through the use of repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS or TMS).
TriState TMS
Offering Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) therapy for the treatment of patients suffering from depression with locations in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
Knowledge Centre
Commercially focused UK based source of information on the theory and application of magnetic therapy, magnetism, magnetic jewellery and magnetic bracelets.
Pulsed Electromagnetic Field Therapy
Explanations of technical features for laymen, explaining all parameters important for pulsed magnetic field therapy
Silly beliefs - Magnetic Therapy
A hard-hitting but very thorough attack on magnetic therapy claims
Magnetic Fact, Fiction and Pain Relief
Medical fact and fiction concerning magnets and electromagnets. Discusses history, static and pulsed magnets, Lorentz and Faraday forces, medical literature.
Magnet Therapy
Explanation of study results, legal and regulatory actions, by Stephen Barrett, M.D.
Magnets for Pain [NCCAM Get the Facts]
This fact sheet provides an overview of magnets and summarizes current scientific knowledge about their effects on pain.
The Skeptic's Dictionary: Magnet Therapy
Explains the placebo effect and market size. Links to articles and studies.
Using Magnets for Health
Explains magnetic fields, deficiency syndrome, and history.
Magnets 'can cure depression' | Mail Online
Psychiatrists are carrying out trials using electro-magnets as a treatment for depression - targeting those people who fail to get better with conventional drug therapy (April 01, 2011)
BBC News: 'Bracelets' Useless in Arthritis
Copper bracelets and magnetic wrist straps do not relieve pain or stiffness in people with arthritis, say University of York researchers. (October 16, 2009)
Magnetic Therapy: Plausible Attraction?
Investigates history, how it works, and Baylor study results. (July 01, 1998)