How Morphine Breaks the Brain's Brakes May Be Key to Breaking Addiction - Scientific American
Skip to main content
Subscribe
Menu
Scientific American
Cart 0
Sign In
Email *: Password *: Forgot password?
Login
Not yet registered?
|Stay Informed
Search
Subscribe
Close
Search
Close
Advanced Search
The Sciences
Mind
Health
Tech
Sustainability
Education
Video
Podcasts
Blogs
Publications
Subscribe
Current Issue
Cart0
Sign In
Stay Informed
Share
Latest
Health
How Morphine Breaks the Brain's Brakes May Be Key to Breaking Addiction
Study of rat brains identifies new culprit and possible therapeutic target for addiction
By Nikhil Swaminathan on April 27, 2007
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Reddit
Share on LinkedIn
Share via
Print
Advertisement
A single dose of morphine can block a process in the brain associated with learning and memory for as long as a full day after being ingested, according to a new study. The disruption causes a neuronal imbalance that researchers say could be the first step in the development of addiction. They add that therapies designed to prevent this from happening during drug use could one day help to thwart chemical dependency.
A team of Brown University scientists found that morphine disrupts an inhibitory mechanism in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a cluster of neurons in the center of the brain responsible for processing naturally rewarding actions, such as eating and sexual activity. The resulting imbalance between excitation and inhibition allows the levels of the neurotransmitter dopamine, a pleasure chemical, to surge.
Morphine blocks a process called long-term potentiation (LTP), which strengthens the synapses (connections between neurons) to make the transfer of information between cells more efficient. Neuroscientists have identified this mechanism as a cellular process behind memory and learning.
In the current study, scientists focused on synapses between dopamine-containing neurons and those that contain GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid), an inhibitory chemical. "The ability to have LTP at these synapses is probably a natural mechanism to balance excitation and inhibition," says senior study author Julie Kauer, "so the synapse won't get crazily excited."
When the synapse for glutamate (the main excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain) is activated, it triggers a chemical cascade that eventually causes neighboring inhibitory neurons to release GABA into the synapse between it and the dopamine neuron. If a GABA response is blocked—preventing LTP from taking place, as is the case when morphine is in the system—dopamine release is unabated, causing a pleasure sensation. The release of GABA is like "a natural brake on the system," explains Kauer, a Brown University professor of medical science. "When morphine is given 24 hours before, it is like that natural brake has been removed."
Researchers blocked the release of different chemicals in this neurotransmitter cascade a day after injecting rats with a single dose of morphine to determine whether LTP could be induced via electrical stimulation. The team traced the disturbance caused by morphine to an enzyme called guanylate cyclase. Kauer speculates that morphine either decreases guanylate cyclase to levels too low to activate the next chemical in the cascade, or deafens the enzyme to the chemical that signals it.
"[Kauer] has many steps in the LTP pathway," says Susan Volman, program director at the National Institute on Drug Abuse in Bethesda, Md.," but it's not the complete pathway." She adds, however, that "from a potential medication point of view  the guanylate cyclase is a possible target in this cascade, because that's the step at which the morphine seems to be interrupting the LTP."
Kauer suggests that a drug targeting guanylate cyclase could be offered along with morphine to lower the chances of addiction when it is prescribed for pain management. It could prevent addiction, she says, "without interfering with analgesic properties of the drug."
The research, published in the new issue of Nature, provides further evidence that the balance between excitatory and inhibitory drivers is upset by abuse of narcotics; previous studies have shown similar results from abuse of cocaine, nicotine and alcohol. It also confirms, Kauer says, that "the cellular underpinnings of synapses that allow us to learn are the same ones that allow addiction
"Addiction is like memory,'' she adds," in that it's very difficult to erase."
Rights & Permissions
ABOUT THE AUTHOR(S)
Nikhil Swaminathan
Recent Articles
Monkey See, Monkey Don't: Learning from Others' Mistakes
Thunder, Lightning and... Snow
Hormonal Help for Autism: A Dose of Oxytocin
Read This Next
The Sciences
One Dose of Cocaine Primes the Brain for Addiction
May 31, 2001 — Kristin Leutwyler
Mind
While Signals Keep Firing, Memories Hold Still in the Brain
November 21, 2006 — Nikhil Swaminathan
Sustainability
Building a Brainier Mouse
April 1, 2000 — Joe Z. Tsien
Advertisement
Newsletter
Get smart. Sign up for our email newsletter.
Sign Up
Expertise. Insights. Illumination.
Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners.
Subscribe Now!
Follow us
instagram
soundcloud
youtube
twitter
facebook
rss
Scientific american arabic
العربية
Store
About
Press Room
FAQs
Contact Us
Site Map
Advertise
SA Custom Media
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Use of Cookies
International Editions
Scientific American is part of Springer Nature, which owns or has commercial relations with thousands of scientific publications (many of them can be found at www.springernature.com/us). Scientific American maintains a strict policy of editorial independence in reporting developments in science to our readers.
© 2019 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc.
All Rights Reserved.
Scroll To Top
Deep Dives in Science -- Subscribe to our Collector's Editions Today
Learn More
You have free articles left.
Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.
See subscription options
Already a subscriber? Sign in.
You have no free articles left.
Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.
Sign In
See Subscription Options