Set My Location
Español
Careers
Classes + Events
Health + Wellness
Patient Resources
Billing
Login
Find a Doctor
Find a Location
Conditions and Services
Get Care Now
Get Care Now
Find a Doctor
Find a Location
Conditions and Services
Español
Careers
Classes + Events
Health + Wellness
Patient Resources
Billing
Ask the Expert
Ask the Expert
Alternatives to prescription drugs
Are over-the-counter weight-loss drugs effective, safe?
Benefits of Taking Multivitamin Supplements
Certain foods may interact with medication
Concern About Pesticides
Creatine Supplements for Athletic Performance
Energy Drinks
Heat Exhaustion
Holiday season poisoning hazards
Keeping your house toxic free
Rattlesnake Bites
Rid your house of scorpions
Seniors and accidental poisonings
Spring cleaning in the medicine cabinet
Staying safe around rattlesnakes
What are poisonous plants in Arizona and the Southwest?
What should I do if I am attacked by killer bees?
Which is worse: scorpions or pesticides?
Staying Well
Ask the Expert
Certain foods may interact with medication
Share
Certain foods may interact with medication
Frank LoVecchio, DO, is a medical toxicologist at the Banner Poison and Drug Information Center. For more information on this topic, talk with your physician or call the Poison Center at (800) 222-1222.
Question: Can following a particular diet or eating certain foods reduce the effectiveness of prescription medications?
Answer: Maintaining a healthy diet full of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean meats and low-fat dairy is recommended for most people, but depending on what medications a person is taking, certain foods can be problematic. For example, studies have shown that cholesterol-lowering medicines, also called statins, may be affected by pomegranate and cranberry juices, and even heart-healthy olive oil.
Food and medicine interact in two ways: A particular food may block absorption of a drug, which lowers the dose the person receives; or the food may increase absorption of the medication, resulting in a potential overdose. Age, weight and gender can also impact how the body responds to a given drug. However, in most cases, an interaction between food and medicine only occurs if the person consumes significant portions of that particular food. Small quantities are not usually cause for concern.
For example, grapefruit juice provides vitamin C, potassium and lycopene. But chemicals in grapefruit juice and grapefruit pulp interfere with the enzymes that break down (metabolize) various drugs in the digestive system, such as certain calcium channel blockers and cholesterol-lowering drugs. The result can be excessively high levels of these drugs in the blood and an increased risk of potentially serious side effects.
Mixing alcohol with medications such as valium, etc can have deadly complications.
Quinolones (Ciprofloxacin/CIPRO Levofloxacin/LEVAQUIN, etc.) can bind to calcium rich foods in the intestines and negate their antibacterial effect.
While people are encouraged to choose foods and vitamin supplements that are beneficial to their diets, such as antioxidant-rich produce and healthy oils and nuts, they should be aware that the rising consumption of such foods can increase the possibility for adverse reactions to medications.
Researchers are regularly discovering new and unintended side effects when certain foods are combined with particular medications or supplements. Patients must advise their doctors of any vitamins or supplements they are taking, and should always ask for information regarding dietary restrictions when starting a new medication.
Get the latest health tips!
Sign up for our healthy living newsletter
Preview
JOIN
Banner Health
Doctors
Services
Locations
For Health Professionals
For Employees
Volunteers
Insurance
About
Quality
News
For Media
Ways to Give
Donate Now
Careers
Patient Center
Bill Pay
Billing Information
Classes and Events
Financial Assistance
Medical Records
MyBanner Patient Portal
Patient Registration
Connect With Us
Contact
Read Our Blog
Ask an Expert
Newsletter Sign Up
© 2019 By Banner Health
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Nondiscrimination
Accessible View
Get the right type of care
Urgent Care
For non-life threatening medical needs
Emergency Care
For life-threatening emergencies, find the nearest emergency room
Nurse On Call
Get Helpful advice over the phone
(844) 259-9494
Help Me Choose
Get Care Now
Search
Find
Set My Location
Clear
Setting your location helps us to show you nearby doctors, locations and events throughout the site.
Use Current Location