Baking Soda – Helped to Cure Cancer - Best Daily Health and Remedy Articles
Sgggc.org
Best Daily Health and Remedy Articles
Menu
Health
Beauty
Home Remedies
natural remedies
Diet and Weight Loss
General
Home
Health
Baking Soda – Helped to Cure Cancer
Baking Soda – Helped to Cure Cancer
admin Health
“Cancer is a fungus called Candida albicans, which can be treated with sodium bicarbonate.” Thus says Tulio Simoncini
Simoncini is a former Italian oncologist in Rome, who developed the theory that all cancer is caused exclusively by a fungus called Candida albicans. Your alternative cancer treatment is simple: for alkalizing the body and tumor by using a cheap, common, sodium bicarbonate compound, the fight against candida, tumor shrinkage and stop metastasis. Therefore it is also a natural cure for cancer.
Candida, beneficial bacteria, bodies of acid and cancer
The background work Simoncini’s involves the following theoretical elements:
first, bodies acids to be linked to poor health and cancer are known.
Second, baking soda can alkalizing your body. It has been used in many preparations as an antacid; aid indigestion. You can buy a small pot of it in high street chemists for a little over a pound.
Third, the beneficial bacteria in the gut are now known to lead to 85 percent of their immune response to free anti-cancer vitamins (such as biotin, vitamin B12, folic acid, vitamin K) from their food and even to produce a compound (sodium butyrate), which makes cancer cells to self destruct. The beneficial bacteria work imperfectly if the acidity of the intestine increases.
However, fourthly, at night when sleep, beneficial bacteria digest large quanities of microbes, fungi and yeasts consumed during the day with food. In fact, his favorite food is yeast or fungus, Candida albicans. Therefore, they are your first line of defense.
So how could Candida cause cancer?
Candida albicans is known to be able to escape the intestine and travel throughout the body in the bloodstream. Oregano oil and cinnamon can kill the yeast into the bloodstream. About 25 percent of type 2 diabetics, were shown to improve when given cinnamon. This is because the fungus is found in the outer membranes of the cells, avoiding sites crucial function properly receptors – in the case of diabetes, the receptor sites are insulin. However, candida also produces a sugar-like waste. persons with sugar levels higher blood cancer develop more; and survive less.
But there is a second potential problem. Yeasts such as Candida are anaerobes – this means they generate energy without oxygen. Once in the bloodstream that can colonize local areas of the body and greatly reduce oxygen levels in the area. The result is that local cells do not die, but change their own energy production of oxygen-based system to one that uses oxygen Indifferent. This is the system used by the cancer cells, which also do not use oxygen to generate energy from food molecules. In fact, Otto Warburg won the Nobel Prize in 1931 for telling the world this property of cancer cells and oxygen was his enemy!
is therefore no surprise then that women who had taken antibiotics more than 25 times during his life had twice the risk of breast cancer, according to a covered study Research Service Cancer CANCERactives clock ? The benign bacteria were reduced candida allowing more likely to survive in the intestine into the bloodstream. Their immune systems were weak, as indicated by the diseases requiring antibiotics. And so on.
Dr. Simoncini was a respected Italian oncologist until he developed his theory … His theory is that all cancer is caused by the fungus Candida albicans. His cure is alkalse the body to produce the conditions in which the candida could not succeed. His main weapon is sodium bicarbonate inexpensive. He struck out in Italy.
You May Also Like:
Tweet Pin It
Related Posts
Amazing Mask For Sagging Breasts, Results After 5 Days
admin September 28, 2016
Try This Delicious Fruit Salad and Your Taste Buds Will Thank You
admin April 13, 2016
5000 Years Old Tibetan Remedy, That Is Use Only Once In 5 Years!
admin September 5, 2016
NECESSARY FOR YOUR HEALTH, FULL OF VITAMINS: ALWAYS CHOOSE SARDINES FROM ADRIATIC SEA, HERE IS WHY!
admin September 28, 2016
Add a Comment
Cancel reply
This So Powerful Ancient Remedy “Cures All Diseases” : HIV, AIDS, Diabetes, Cancer, Stroke, STDs, Arthritis & More …
What Your Birth Month Says About Your Love Life
Benefits of Camel Milk: Low Allergen Alternative to Dairy
Early Signs That Cancer Is Growing In Your Body!
I Refuse To Let My Wife’s Depression Ruin My Marriage
Mike Chang’s Six Pack Shortcuts – Abs Fitness Coach?
Top Five Homeopathic Remedies for Joint Pains in Rheumatoid Arthritis
Okinawa Diet – The Healthy Human Diet To Live Past 100?
What Difference, at This Point, Does It Make?
14 Quick And Healthy Low Calorie Dinner Recipes
Recent Visits
david ludwig murder forum
why was the book thief challenged
robin mcgraws sister dead
learn to train your wife in 5 easy steps
where does nia and ellie live
but what would i wear grinch scene
money for a lifetime pdf
sp-5 cancer cure
what are the zombies in fortnite called
what are zombies called in fortnite
Populer Keywords
baking soda
baking soda schoonmaaktips
baking soda en gezondheid
baking soda kruidvat
baking soda toepassingen
baking soda drinken en afvallen
baking soda waar te koop
baking soda albert heijn
baking soda jumbo prijs
baking soda kopen
Popular Tags
d jd fيوتيوب, dirt cheap protocol, What are the zombies in Fortnite called?, emory patient portal, dr glenn rothfeld scam, the secrets of underground medicine scam, dr bob dsm-5, how does fuushima disaster hurt climate change, secrets of underground medicine scam, harbin clinic patient portal, what are the zombies in fortnite called, dr john bergman scam, gx-9 supplement scam, niah and ellie show, what happened to jack on macgyver
Sgggc.org Copyright © 2019.
Contact
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
DMCA Notice & Policy
Disclaimer
==[Click 2x to Close X]==
Most Popular Today!
What Your Birth Month Says About Your Love Life 400 views
I Refuse To Let My Wife’s Depression Ruin My Marriage 200 views
4 Patriots – Disaster Preparedness Company 100 views