Smoky Quartz Chakra Healing Pendulum Crystal Jewelry Gemstone | Cosmic Cuts© | Free Shipping All Orders
Cosmic Cuts 0 / $ 0.00 Cart
Cosmic Cuts
Facebook
Pinterest
Youtube
Instagram
Home
Shop Now
Right
Videos
The Amazing Amethyst Geode
Healing Stones
Blog
FAQ
About Us
Right
Affiliates
Contact Us
Login
Join
Left Back to previous
All
Geodes
Spiritual Gifts
Jewelry
Healing Gemstone Collections
Left Back to previous
Michael Harrison's Story
Michael Parrish's Story
...
...
Cosmic Cuts / Collectibles:Rocks, Fossils & Minerals:Crystals & Mineral Specimens:Display Specimens
Smoky Quartz Pendulum Chakra Healing Crystal Jewelry Gemstone JJ-24
$ 17.99
Share:
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
GooglePlus
Email
Quantity
Add to cart
Smoky Quartz Chakra Pendulum Natural Healing Stone
Known as the stone of power, smoky quartz has the ability to release negative energy into the earth to be neutralized. It brings its user a strong sense of balance and grounding protection in a light and uplifting way.
This one-of-a-kind smoky quartz stone is 100% natural and originated from Brazil. This small, tumbled smoky quartz stone can be carried in your pocket, held in your hand or placed on your root chakra during meditation, or displayed in a bowl full of your favorite tumbled stones.
Each piece will differ in size, weight, and appearance. The image shown is a representation of the quality of our smoky quartz crystals. One will be hand-picked for you.
100% Natural One-Of-A-Kind Smoky Quartz With Letter of Authenticity
All Items Safely Packed & Insured
All Items Shipped Within 24 Hours of Cleared Payment
Healing Benefits of Wearing Smoky Quartz
Smoky quartz is clear with brown wisps, and was named after its smoky appearance. These brown areas occur after being exposed to aluminum and natural underground radiation from granite deposits, which is what makes this stone so effective at cleansing the environment from electromagnetic stress.
As the National Gem of Scotland, smoky quartz has been mined by the Celts since 300 B.C. To this day, these stones are used as power stones on the handles of the Scottish Dagger, which is still worn as part of the kilt uniform.
Birthstone Month – June (non-traditional)
How to Wear Healing Crystal Jewelry for the Best Results
INSIDE: Discover the benefits of wearing healing crystal jewelry. Find out why smoky quartz is our favorite crystals to wear, and learn how to wear them for the best results.
If you've noticed people everywhere sporting crystal jewelry, and you've wondered if it's just a new style trend, here's the deal...
Crystals never go out of style, and they have been worn and adored since as far back as we know, but what's becoming more and more in style these days is spirituality and metaphysical stuff.
People are yearning for a deeper connection to life, and healing crystal jewelry is one of the best ways to get it. There are so many benefits to wearing crystal jewelry. Let's look at them now.
Healing Benefits of Wearing Smoky Quartz
Smoky Quartz Benefits
Helps us feel centered, grounded, balanced, and protected, while feeling yet light and uplifted at the same time
Releases negative emotions
Brings good luck
Helps us actualize our potential in the earthly realm by attracting wealth, improving relationships, and completing long-term goals
Powerful cleansing and detoxing benefits
Amplifies all other crystals around it
Helps reduce painful memories
Releases what is holding us back
Shields against psychic attack
Eases emotional stress
Improves mental clarity and communication
Increases perception and psychic ability
Relieves headaches, chronic pain, and neck tension
Assists the kidneys, liver, pancreas, and adrenal glands in detoxing the body
It's Healing!
Crystals have been used for thousands of years to heal and improve lives. Each crystal has unique metaphysical properties and healing attributes that can produce powerful results in our lives.
Crystals work with the energy centers (chakras) in the body to remove energy blockages and heal the body, mind, and spirit. Our energy drastically influences our health, and since healing crystal jewelry resonates with and improves the energy in our body, crystals can help us lead healthier happier lives.
When we wear healing crystal jewelry, it raises our vibration and renews our energy, which transforms our health and well-being in pretty miraculous ways.
It's Easy!
When it comes to getting help with an issue in your life, what could be easier than slipping on a bracelet or wearing a necklace? Most other modalities and treatments are much more difficult and time-consuming than that.
It's Convenient!
Not only is healing crystal jewelry an easy way to improve your life, but it is also incredibly convenient. To be able to bring such powerful healing stones with you wherever you go is quite amazing if you think about it.
And by the way, don't devalue the size of the crystals and think that they aren't very powerful because they are so small. As we explained in our article about stone energy, crystal beads put out personal energy that will extend out about a foot around us.
It's Meaningful!
Crystals are regular characters in folklore and ancient history. Each one has had meaning in history, and each one has a unique meaning to each person. You might agree or disagree with the historical meaning, but either way your healing crystal jewelry will have significance for you.
It's Powerful!
When we allow crystals to touch our skin, especially for a prolonged amount of time like we do while wearing healing crystal jewelry, the stone energy can more easily raise your vibration and infuse your aura. That means your body will be humming with their healing energy.
Our Favorite Healing Crystal Jewelry
Now, we'd like to introduce you to our favorite types of healing crystal jewelry. The following healing stones are the ones we find ourselves turning to again and again, especially in the form of jewelry.
Tips for Getting the Most Out of Your Jewelryl!
Remember to Cleanse Your Healing Crystal Jewelry on a Regular Basis
It's very important to clear your healing crystal jewelry regularly. It usually needs to be cleared more often than crystals that remain in your home since it is being exposed to so many different energies on a daily basis. Learn everything you need to know about clearing your crystals here.
Place Your Healing Crystal Jewelry According to the Results You Seek!
By lining up your healing crystal jewelry with your pulse points and/or chakras, you can increase the results you get from them. Here are some examples of the best places to where your crystal jewelry.
Pay Attention to Which Side You Are Wearing Your Crystal Jewelry On
Each side of our body has different meaning and has an influence on the results we get from our crystal jewelry. Here's how it works:
Right Side - Place your crystal jewelry on the right side when you want to send its power outward and give its healing properties to others. Here are some examples:
To be more loving toward others, wear your smoky quartz bracelet on your right arm.
To help provide a calming environment that others can also benefit from, wear your smoky quartz ring on our right hand.
To protect your family while traveling, wear your smoky quartz on your right side.
Left Side - Place your crystal jewelry on the left side when you want to personally receive its healing energy and enjoy an internal benefit. Here are some examples:
To be more loving to yourself, wear your smoky quartz necklace on your left arm.
To reduce emotional stress, wear your smoky quartz necklace on your left hand.
To protect yourself from negative energy, wear your smoky quartz necklace on your left side.
Wearing healing crystal jewelry is one of the most fun and expressive ways to enjoy the healing benefits of crystals. You'll feel incredible adorned in their beauty while indulging in their healing energy no matter where you go.
Smoky Quartz & The Root Chakra
Balancing your chakras can improve consciousness, health, and one’s relationship with the world. The smoky quartz resonates with the energy of the root chakra, which is our connection to mother earth, and the powerhouse of our strength, stability, stamina, and security. Holding a smoky quartz stone or placing one on the root chakra during meditation will promote feelings of power, independence, and leadership. As the foundation of physical and spiritual energy, engaging the root chakra with the help of your smoky quartz crystal will help you feel centered, balanced, and able to move forward.
The Feng Shui of Smoky Quartz
Feng Shui is the Chinese system of philosophical laws that govern spatial arrangement and the harmony and flow of energy within a room or building. Crystals work in powerful, yet subtle, ways to attract desired energy and strengthen your personal energy field. Smoky quartz can be placed in a window where it can take in the sun’s rays and disperse a prism of light and energy throughout the room. This uplifts the energy in the room and provides a feeling of warmth and healing energy.
Smoky Quartz Benefits
Helps us feel centered, grounded, balanced, and protected, while feeling yet light and uplifted at the same time
Releases negative emotions
Brings good luck
Helps us actualize our potential in the earthly realm by attracting wealth, improving relationships, and completing long-term goals
Powerful cleansing and detoxing benefits
Amplifies all other crystals around it
Helps reduce painful memories
Releases what is holding us back
Shields against psychic attack
Eases emotional stress
Improves mental clarity and communication
Increases perception and psychic ability
Relieves headaches, chronic pain, and neck tension
Assists the kidneys, liver, pancreas, and adrenal glands in detoxing the body
Ideas For How To Use Your Smoky Quartz Jewelry
Place your smoky quartz where you have a lot of electronics to absorb the electromagnetic radiation
Hold it in your hand to dissolve bad moods, resentments, panic attacks, negative thinking, worry, doubt, and hostility
Place several tumbled smoky quartz around your body when you meditate to detox emotional issues
Place the stone over areas of the body where you feel tension to relieve it
Place it around the home or in your car to protect against theft, accidents, and breakdowns
Put a tumbled smoky quartz stone in your child’s pocket to deter bullying
Bring your smoky quartz to business meetings to improve communication
Keep smoky quartz in your pocket to help you quit smoking
Place smoky quartz on your body to counter the effects of chemotherapy
* Crystals and stones should not be used as a substitute for medical advice or treatment. Please read our full disclosure notice here.
Our Shipping & Return Policy
All items 70 lbs and under ship within 24 hours. All other items will ship within 3 business days via pallet. We have years of experience with handling these items, and we ensure that your crystal arrives in mint condition. In cases of large items, please include a phone number so the freight company can schedule delivery.
All items are 100% insured and expertly packed in top quality shipping materials. Returns are accepted for practical reasons. Buyers are responsible for filing insurance claims.
International Shipping
We have an approximate flat-rate fee that covers an estimated 80% of international customers. We hold the right to request more shipping and/or cancel the order if shipping grossly exceeds our flat rate price. Please also include a phone number for duty entry process.
We are a top rated, award-winning mineral dealer offering fine mineral specimens for sale at sensible prices with outstanding customer service. We have a 99% satisfaction rate, we value our customers tremendously, and we take pride in providing an excellent experience.
Back to the top
Facebook
Pinterest
Youtube
Instagram
Feel Free to Call Us: 252-458-3589
Search
About
Affiliates
FAQ
Contact
Resources
Shipping & Return Policy
Disclaimer Notice
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
XML Sitemap
Copyright © 2019 Cosmic Cuts.
Left Continue shopping
Your Order
You have no items in your cart
Subtotal: $ 0.00
View Cart