California Amplifies The Cancer Scare From Cellphones – emfTESTS - Home Inspections
615.559.0375
Nashville, Tennessee
info@emftests.com
MENUMENU
Home
About us
Services
Services
EMF Home Inspection
Office EMF Inspection
Remediation of EMF Smog
EMF Pollution Advocacy
Tips and Faq
Unhealthy Electromagnetic Frequencies
What is Dirty Electricity?
Harmful EMF Radiation
Pricing
EMF Home Inspection, and Remediation Solutions
Additional Resources
Blog Center
Contact us
Style Switcher
Predefined Colors
Reset
California Amplifies The Cancer Scare From Cellphones
EMF 0 Comments December 19, 2017 December 19, 2017 Advocacy Cell Phones Safty Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity EMF-home-inspection Nashville Tennessee Home inspections
After numerous studies over two decades, there is no convincing evidence that cellphone use increases the risk of cancer. The consensus within the medical profession is that the health effects of regular cell phone use are quite small, if they exist at all. Some studies even show health benefits.
But that didn’t stop the California Department of Public Health last week from issuing their Guidance on How to Reduce Exposure to Radiofrequency Energy from Cell Phones. To be fair, they were forced to by a CA State Judge who ruled in favor of a UC Berkeley conspiracy theorist named Joel Moskowitz who had sued for release of such guidelines.
95% of Americans own a cell phone. Children now get their first cell phone around age 10, and most millennials keep their phones on or near them most of the day, even when they sleep.
So it would seem relevant to know whether or not it could be dangerous. But after years of study, the International Agency for Research on Cancer at the World Health Organization only classified radiofrequency electromagnetic fields as ‘possibly’ carcinogenic. Conspiracy theorists got more excited about that than the medical community.
In one study that followed more than 420,000 cellphone users over a 20-year period, researchers found no evidence of a link between cellphones and brain tumors, the obvious cancer of concern. Other studies, especially from Oxford and the Swiss Public Health Institute have also found no correlation.
Cellphones send and receive radio wave signals to and from cellphone towers. These signals are a form of electromagnetic radiation called radiofrequency (RF) energy, like that generated by TV and radio transmitters. When a phone sends signals to a tower, the RF energy goes from the phone’s antenna out in all directions, including into the head and body of the person using the phone.
Cellphones also emit RF energy when using Wi-Fi or Bluetooth, but at lower levels.
Unlike ionizing radiation like gamma rays, neutrons and alpha particles, RF does not have enough energy to split chemical bonds, such as those in compounds like DNA in our cells, which can cause cancer at really high doses.
Some think that, while RF can’t split bonds, it might heat up cells enough to cause damage. But our bodies are really good at heat regulation so you’d have to get an awful lot of dose to do anything, like put your head in a microwave oven, and there is no evidence this happens with cell phones.
(This type of RF heating is quite different from the hot phones that recently spontaneously began burning and were recalled. That was from the batteries overheating)
With years of study and billions of people using cell phones, the fact that we have no real evidence that cellphone use causes cancer means there is little need to worry about it. It’s one of those phantom worries, like low levels of radiation, that is so far below the noise of everyday risks that it’s foolish to spend any effort or money trying to guard against it. Especially since you’ll end up not spending that effort and money addressing real risks – like air pollution, eating too many carbs or driving while texting.
If holding the cell phone to your head is the real vector, then just put it on speaker or facetime, or use the hands-free option in your car. I always put my calls on speaker anyway, not for this reason, but because my old arms get tired.
Or you could just text instead…but not while driving.
Dr. James Conca is an expert on energy, nuclear and dirty bombs, a planetary geologist, and a professional speaker. Follow him on Twitter @jimconca and see his book at Amazon.com
Posted in Advocacy, Cell Phones Safty, Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity, EMF-home-inspection, Nashville Tennessee Home inspectionsTagged Breast Cancer And Cell Phones In Bra, Breast Cancer Cell Phone Cases, Breast Cancer Cell Phone Snopes, Cancer And Cell Phone Radiation, Cancer And Cell Phone Usage, Cancer Associated With Cell Phone Use, Cancer Caused By Cell Phone Usage, Cancer Cell Phone Cases, Cancer Cell Phones Study, Cancer Effects Of Cellphone Towers, Cancer From Cell Phones Symptoms, Cell Phones And Brain Cancer Articles, Cell Phones And Cancer World Health Organization, Cell Phones Electromagnetic Radiation And Cancer, Ear Cancer And Cell Phones, Eye Cancer And Cell Phones, National Cancer Institute And Cell Phones, Ovarian Cancer Cell Phone Cases, Salivary Gland Cancer And Cell Phones, Studies On Cancer And Cell Phones, Thyroid Cancer Cell Phone Radiation
Post a Comment Cancel reply
Recent Posts
Are smartphones and online technologies threatening our health?
Letter: The threat from electronic pollution
Does 5G technology increase our health risks?
Anxiety, Sleeplessness, Exhaustion or Brain Fog?
Radiofrequency expert warns 5G radiation could be carcinogenic
EMF LINKS
The Harmful Effects of Electromagnetic Fields Explained
Electromagnetic Fields and Cancer
Is Electrosmog Harming Your Health?
Additional Resources
Understanding EMFs
Cell Phone Fine print
Categories
Categories Select Category AC/DC Magnetic Fields Advocacy Cell Phones Safty Cell Towers Electromagnetic Frequencies Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity EMF-home-inspection Nashville Tennessee Home inspections Real Estate Inspection Safty and Remediation Smart Meters Wi-Fi
Jeromy Johnson is (EHS)
He used to work in Silicon Valley in the United States and become very ill when Smart Meters were introduced where he lived. He then became sensitive to other sources of EMFs.
Contact Us
info@emftests.com
@emftests
(615) 559-0375
41 Peabody St, Nashville, 37210
Send Message
emfTEST | All Rights Reserved