Benefits of Fish Oil | Living a Healthy Lifestyle
Living a Healthy Lifestyle
Living a Healthy Lifestyle
Home
Healthy Lifestyle
Benefits of Stretching
Bike Riding for health
Massaging
Your skin is a sponge
Take a Vacation
Deep Breathing Exercises
Breath of Fresh Air
Drink more water
Healthy Options
Olive Oil Nutrition Facts
What do antioxidants do
Omega 3 Fatty Acids Benefits
How to Handle Stress
Organics
Mercury Fillings
Fish Oil Benefits
soft drinks and health
Dealing with Depression
Healthy Foods
Green Tea Health
Pomegranate nutrition
Red Wine Health Benefits
Healthy Chinese Food Options
Kombucha Tea
Search for:
Recent Posts
Benefits of Fish Oil
Benefits of Green Tea – Does Green Tea Have Caffeine
Health Benefits of Olive Oil
Soft Drinks and Health
Archives
March 2015
January 2015
February 2013
February 2012
January 2012
Benefits of Fish Oil
Including Fish oil into your diet could be one of the single most important additions into living a healthy lifestyle.
Below are the top 10 powerful reasons to include fish oils into your life. They will slowly transform you into a healthy, happy and beautiful new person as you continue to take it over time. Omega 3 fatty acids are the key to the fish oil benefits. They are the powerhouse that is contained inside of them. Consuming fresh salmon or taking a spoonful of Cod Liver Oil are 2 excellent sources of those powerful Omega 3 fatty acids.
The Power Of Fish Oils
#1. Memory and Focus, Clearer thoughts.
Omega-3s in the form of fish oil can help with focusing. When work is getting chaotic and you need to have a sharp mind, Fish Oils will be a great factor for clearer thoughts. The benefits of fish oil are most noticeable for mental focus, improving memory, recall and reasoning.
#2. Helps to win that fight against heart disease.
Heart disease is one of the biggest killers in the world. We eat foods that make us fat, we rarely exercise in our crazy lives. The America Heart Association says that including omega 3 fatty acids and fish oils can help to improve your chances for a normal heart healthy lifestyle as well as a healthy diet and exercise.
#3. Pain and Inflammation will lessen.
Many people struggle with pain from working out at the gym or just normal wear and tear. It can be lower back, knees, shoulder or neck pain that makes you useless for couple hours or even days. The Omega 3 fatty acids benefits are powerful and the fish oils they come from work throughout body and through several mechanisms, they regulate your body’s inflammation cycle, which prevents and relieves painful conditions like arthritis, allergy rhinitis, prostatitis and cystitis. A spoonful a day can help with pain and inflammation.
#4. Helps to lower Cholesterol.
The Mayo Clinic and the American Heart Association both recommend fish oil and omega 3 fatty acids to help reduce cholesterol. Through research, the American Heart Association has seen benefits of fish oil in subjects with and without coronary disease and cholesterol issues. There is an improvement on cholesterol levels when consumed regularly. They recommend different levels of fish oil supplements or eating direct from the source such as fresh salmon, for different conditions, but indicate that fish oil is beneficial to individuals no matter what their current heart health.
#5. Your unborn baby will thank you.
There has been so many studies with DHA omega 3 fatty acids and its role in proper fetus development in the women’s womb. These Omega 3 sources are literally helping to form the baby’s brain while growing and developing. Even after your baby is born and you breastfeed, you still can pass the benefits of omegas to your newborn. Also, the Associated Press states that some doctors believe that omega-3s acids are the main building block for human intelligence, so babies who take in omega-3s through fish oil supplements when mom is pregnant and breast feeding are statistically likely to be more intelligent children and adults.
More Fish Oil benefits
#6: A more natural way for dealing with depression
There has been research that shows a link between people with certain mood disorders and having low concentrations of Omega 3 in their bodies. In studies, depressed patients were given Omega 3 supplements and many studies found that the Omega 3 supplements did have a direct impact on elevating moods.
#7. Healthy skin
Do you have any skin rash, acne or disorders you are very ashamed for? Fish oils and omega fatty acids have anti-inflammatory properties that will help your skin to heal itself. Over time you will notice a slight glow in your skin and better complexion to feel good about.
#8. Helps to keep cancer away
Cancer is still one of the top leading diseases that cause death. Many people have cancer from smoking, the others can genetically inherit this disease and some people can get it from pollution, bad food choices etc… Omega 3 fish oil has been shown to help prevent three of the most common forms of cancer – breast, colon and prostate. Science tells us that omega 3s accomplish this in three ways. They stop the alteration from a normal healthy cell to a cancerous mass, inhibiting unwanted cellular growth and causing apoptosis, or cellular death, of cancer cells. This alone should make you want to include fish oils into your daily lifestyle.
#9. Reverse the Aging Process
Yes, by taking fish oils that are high in omega 3 fatty acids you will start feeling energized, you will feel youthful, your skin will look good and heart will be happy, your eyes will glow, your hair will shine. Living to 100 will be that much easier once you realize the benefits of fish oil.
#10. Increases both male and female fertility.
Studies show that infertility is directly related to the amount of fish oil you consume. Fish oil balances hormones, improves hormonal levels and increases blood flow to the uterus. The more Omega 3 fatty acids you get the greater your odds of conceiving. Now, take that to bed with you tonight and enjoy.
You have many choices to reap the rewards of the fish oil benefits.
First of all, enjoy more seafood. Seafood is the best and most natural way to enjoy the powerful attributes and the health benefits. If eating fish is not an option then you can always try fish oil supplements.There are many to choose from but I recommend Cod Liver Oil as one of the best out there, especially when it comes from the cold, deep, clean Norwegian waters. Here’s to good healthy.
© 2019 Living a Healthy Lifestyle
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy