Charlotte Cannabis Use Disorder/Addiction Therapy - Thriveworks Charlotte Cannabis Use Disorder/Addiction Therapy - Thriveworks
Counseling
Find a Counselor
Online Counseling
Subscribe
About
TW In the News
Blogs
Counseling News
Private Practice Blog
Contact
Employment
Book A Counselor!
Select Page
Locations
Charlotte
South Charlotte
Individual
Addiction Counseling
Alcoholism Therapy
Anger Counseling
Anxiety Disorder Counseling
Bipolar Disorder Counseling
Cannabis Use Disorder Therapy
Career Coaching
Child/Adolescent Therapy
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
Counseling for African-Americans
Dependent Personality Disorder Therapy
Depression Therapy
Domestic Violence Counseling
Eating Disorder Therapy
Anorexia and Builimia Counseling
Binge Eating Disorder Therapy
Emotional Abuse
Goal Setting Help
Grief Counseling
Increased Happiness Help
Insomnia Counseling
Internet Addiction Counseling
LGBTQ Counseling
Life Coaching
Loneliness Counseling
Men’s Issues
Panic Attack Therapy
Personality Disorder Therapy
Borderline Personality Disorder Counseling
Play Therapy
Self-Harm Counseling
Sexual Abuse Recovery
Teen Counseling
Video Game Addiction Therapy
Weight Management Therapy
Workaholism Therapy
Relationships
Blended Family Counseling
Breakup Counseling
Codependency Counseling
Couples Counseling
Couples Substance Abuse Counseling
Family Therapy
Infidelity Counseling
Marriage Counseling
Premarital Counseling
Programs
Psychological Testing Services
Divorce Counseling Services
Our Team
Charlotte
South Charlotte
Our Offices
Request Appointment
980-581-3061 (447 S Sharon Amity Rd)
704-969-2597 (3315 Springbank Ln)
Therapy for Cannabis Use Disorder in Charlotte, NC—Quitting Weed
Ganja. Weed. Hashish. Skun. Pot. Marijuana. Bhang. Cannabis has hundreds of slang names and even more controversies about its use. Everyone, it seems, has an opinion about when, how, where, and if people should use cannabis. Within these debates, misinformation is rampant and understanding fact is difficult. Have you ever heard?
Anybody who uses cannabis is addicted.
Or how about?
People do not get addicted to cannabis.
Or maybe?
There are not side effects when people detox from weed.
Here are a few facts about cannabis use to clarify. Like alcohol, many people use cannabis without becoming addicted. But about 30 percent of cannabis users do form an addiction, and the percentages for daily users are higher. Furthermore, not everyone experiences severe detox symptoms, but many people report side effects during detox such as headaches, sweats, nightmares, digestive problems, and more.
If you feel like your cannabis use is getting out of control, you are not alone. Cannabis addiction has become common, and the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) recognizes Cannabis Use Disorder (CUD). Many people find themselves using weed in larger quantities or more often than they intend. If quitting or curbing use has become a challenge, it may be time for professional help.
Thriveworks Charlotte offers treatment for Cannabis Use Disorder, and our therapists have helped many people navigate detox and live without pot.
Cannabis and CUD
Cannabis is a plant, and it contains Delta-9-TetraHydrocannabinol (THC) in its leaves, stems, and buds. THC is a psychoactive compound, i.e., it affects people’s mind. In large quantities, it also has hallucinogenic effects. THC slows down the body-brain communication.
Because not all cannabis use is harmful, it can be challenging to know how often is too often and how much is too much.
DSM-5 officially defines Cannabis Use Disorder as the use of weed for at least one year along with decreased daily functioning and increased life disturbances as shown by experiencing at least two of these symptoms:
Increasing the amount of weed used to experience the same high.
Attempting to stop or curb use, but being unable to.
Craving cannabis, including intense dreams, psychosomatic smells, vivid images, and/or obsessive thoughts about it.
Dedicating substantial time to pot use—obtaining it, ingesting it, and recovering from it.
Experiencing personal, professional, or relational harm from weed use but continuing to partake.
Allowing one’s job, hygiene, school, family, or friends to suffer because of pot use.
Using pot after increasingly more frequent intervals.
Mixing risky behavior and pot use such as driving a car while high.
Experiencing withdrawal symptoms while attempting to quit marijuana.
Not at cases of CUD at the same. DSM-5 recognizes a scale of addiction, depending upon the amount of symptoms a person experiences. People experience Mild CUD when they have two to three symptoms. They experience Moderate CUD with four to five symptoms. Finally, Severe CUD means people experience six or more symptoms.
CUD and Risk Factors
Not everyone forms an addiction to cannabis, and there are certain circumstances that make the addiction more likely. The DSM-5 recognizes that these may increase the risk of CUD:
Background of abuse.
Low socio-economic status.
History of tobacco use.
A family history of chemical dependency.
A pre-existing Conduct Disorder or Antisocial Personality Disorder.
Unstable family circumstances.
Living in a drug-tolerant culture.
Low school performance.
Easy to access to weed.
Family members who use pot.
CUD’s Treatment
THC, the active compound in cannabis, is stored in people’s bodies through their fat cells. This makes it harder for the body to cleanse THC than if it were water soluble. Detoxing takes times. People with CUD have reported feeling weed’s effects days, weeks, and even months after their last use.
Treating CUD can be a challenge, and many people have found that therapy helped them overcome the difficulty of detox. Counseling may equip people to cope with the effects of withdrawal and with living to live without pot. Therapy may also explore how a person began using cannabis and unearth any underlying causes of the addiction that need treatment. With a counselor’s help, many people learn to resolve difficult emotions and experiences in a healthy way.
Thriveworks Charlotte, NC Treats CUD
When you learned about the symptoms of CUD, could you recognize any of those behaviors in your own life? Are you wondering if it is time to curb or quit cannabis? If so, you do not have to do it alone. Thriveworks Charlotte treats CUD and has appointments available.
We offer individualized care for each client, from the time their first call our office. That’s why a person will answer you call and help you schedule an appointment. It’s why you may be able to see your therapist the next day. It’s why we offer evening and weekend appointments. It’s also why we probably take your insurance. We want to make scheduling therapy as convenient for our clients as possible.
Are you ready to get started? Call today.
Leave Us a Review
We love to hear about how we’re doing!
Review Us
Say "Hello" to a Better You
Schedule your first appointment today
Book A Counselor!
Thriveworks Counseling
People Love Our Providers!
Overall Rating: 5★★★★★ based on 6
5 1 6
reviews. See all reviews
Thriveworks Counseling Charlotte
Grandson
★★★★★
Excellent service. Blair Hamel was so wonderful. She truly cares.
- Donald
Thriveworks Counseling Charlotte
For my son
★★★★☆
The service was fine. We came in for an evaluation for my son Bryant. Mrs. Hamel was professional and seemed t...Read more
o be able to talk with Bryant although his lips sometimes get in the way of being understood by others.
Read less
- Latonia
Thriveworks Counseling Charlotte
Great place for healing
★★★★★
This is a very safe place. The therapists and staff are knowledgeable and patient. I have had a really positiv...Read more
e experience and I am learning and growing.
Read less
- Anonymous
Thriveworks Counseling Charlotte
Grandson
★★★★★
Excellent service. Blair Hamel was so wonderful. She truly cares.
- Donald
Thriveworks Counseling Charlotte
For my son
★★★★☆
The service was fine. We came in for an evaluation for my son Bryant. Mrs. Hamel was professional and seemed t...Read more
o be able to talk with Bryant although his lips sometimes get in the way of being understood by others.
Read less
- Latonia
Thriveworks Counseling Charlotte
Great place for healing
★★★★★
This is a very safe place. The therapists and staff are knowledgeable and patient. I have had a really positiv...Read more
e experience and I am learning and growing.
Read less
- Anonymous
Thriveworks Counseling Charlotte
Genuine and Comfortable
★★★★★
Charlotte has a team of Therapists that are skilled and compassionate. Matt and Kim have taken great care to e...Read more
nsure that client care is a priority. The environment is warm and welcoming. This is a group of Counselors who can really relate to the everyday challenges we all experiences.
Read less
- Christie
Thriveworks Counseling Charlotte
Great people…great office
★★★★★
I am a big fan of Thriveworks! I have known Matt and Kim for some time now and I feel like I have known them f...Read more
orever. They are approachable, helpful, and just great people. Their office is comfortable and inviting. is a place where anyone can find a little peace. Give them a try :)
Read less
- Curtiss
Thriveworks Counseling Charlotte
Charlotte
★★★★★
Owners have great experience and are caring individuals.
- William
See fewer reviews
Thriveworks Counseling
Schedule your first appointment with a Thriveworks Counselor or Life Coach!
447 South Sharon Amity Rd. Suite 100 and Suite 250
Charlotte , NC 28211
Mon-Fri:8AM-9PM
Sat-Sun:8AM-5PM
(980) 581-3061
Contact Us
Leave us a review
Home » Charlotte Counseling and Coaching » Charlotte Cannabis Use Disorder/Addiction Therapy
Arizona
Tucson
Arkansas
Conway
Maumelle
Colorado
Aurora
Colorado Springs
Littleton
Westminster
Georgia
Alpharetta
Atlanta
Cumming
Decatur
Kennesaw
Marietta
McDonough
Peachtree City
Massachusetts
Cambridge (Central Square)
Cambridge (Harvard Square)
Franklin
Newton
Waltham
Westborough
Maryland
Germantown
Michigan
Birmingham
Grand Rapids
Kalamazoo
Nevada
Las Vegas
New Jersey
Cherry Hill
New York
Buffalo
North Carolina
Charlotte
Charlotte (South)
Durham
Raleigh
Pennsylvania
Allentown
Bethlehem
Media
Philadephia (Center City)
Philadelphia (JFK Blvd.)
Philadelphia (Walnut St.)
Reading
Willow Grove
South Carolina
Columbia
Greenville
Rock Hill
Tennessee
Bristol
Knoxville
Johnson City
Texas
North Austin
SW Austin (Manchaca Rd.)
SW Austin (Bee Caves Rd.)
Bastrop
Cedar Park
Georgetown
Pflugerville
Round Rock
Virginia
Alexandria
Blacksburg
Charlottesville
Chesapeake
Chesterfield
Fredericksburg
Hanover
Lynchburg
Manassas
Mclean
Newport News
Richmond
Roanoke
Short Pump
Sterling
Virginia Beach
See All Locations
Hide Locations
We believe that everyone can benefit from counseling or coaching with a skilled and caring professional.
Let's keep in touch!*
General Interest, News and Self-Help
Tips and Info for Providers in Practice
*
Quick Links
Find A Counselor
About Us
Discussion Board
Credentialing
Counseling Jobs
Private Practice
Franchise
How can we help you?
All Topics…
Beginning Therapy
Breakups
Child Therapy
Couples
Depression
Grief
Loneliness
Parenting
PTSD
Self-Care
Self-Improvement
Suicide Awareness
Facebook
Twitter
Google
RSS
© 2018 Thriveworks Counseling | Privacy Policy & Terms of Use