10 Vital Ingredients to Keep Your Bones and Joints Healthy - Ingredients Insight
Jump to page content Accessibility
Log in or Register
Home Editor's Choice Buyer's Guide White Papers Features Events Video Advertise With Us Company A - Z Subscribe Online
10 Vital Ingredients to Keep Your Bones and Joints Healthy
29 March 2019
Print Email
Market Dynamics
The global bone and joint health ingredients market was valued at $2,307.8 million in 2017 and is expected to reach $3,345.3 million by the end of 2023, growing at a value compound annual growth rate of 6.4% over the forecast period. The global population particularly in the developed economies are approaching ages nearing or surpassing the life expectancy of human beings and maintaining bone and joint health becomes very crucial, the market for bone and joint health ingredients has exceeded $9 billion and is thus exhibiting a promising trend.
The WHO announced that by 2020, osteoarthritis will become the fourth most common cause of disability worldwide due to aging population. These alarming figures have given significant momentum to the bone and joint health ingredient market. The rise in aging population segment is expected to be the major driving force of global bone and joint health ingredients market.
Major Ingredients Dominate the Market
1. Vitamin D
Vitamin D is essential for good bone health as it plays a crucial role in allowing the body to absorb calcium and phosphorus, making bones and teeth stronger and healthier. Vitamin D and Calcium supplements aids to the formation of main building structure of bones but the body cannot absorb calcium without the help of Vitamin D. A double-blind study showed improved bone mineral density (BMD) in older women through the supplementation of 1,400 IU of vitamin D in addition to sufficient calcium is used as one of the most prominent supplements for bone and joints related health issues.
2. Glucosamine and Chondroitin Sulfate
Glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate are supplements that have gained a great deal of attention due to their potential role in alleviating symptoms of Osteoarthritis (OA) with minimal side effects. The two ingredients are often used together. One of the most important glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate benefits is its use in arthritis treatment. It is used to ease the pain and to get rid of the symptoms of arthritis by rebuilding cartilage in the body. Chondroitin sulphate, specially, helps in slowing down the progression of arthritis in human beings. They also aids in treating the inflammation caused due to arthritis. Other benefits include:
(1) Glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate help in increasing the production of hyaluronic acid which is a component of synovial fluid. This fluid helps in lubricating joints.
(2) They also help in enhancing the repair process of the body naturally.
(3) They promote healthy joint function by reducing swelling and pain. They also aid in improving the flexibility of the joints.
(4) Apart from the above mentioned benefits, they are also believed to help in treatment of glaucoma, osteoporosis, high blood pressure, heart diseases and anemia.
3. Hyaluronic Acid (HA)
Hyaluronic acid (HA) can relieve joint pain by keeping bones well lubricated. HA is also found in the joints, where it keeps the space between your bones well lubricated. When the joints are lubricated, the bones are less likely to grind against each other and cause uncomfortable pain. HA supplements are very helpful for people suffering from osteoarthritis, a type of degenerative joint disease caused by wear and tear on the joints over time. Taking 80-200 mg daily for at least two months has been shown to significantly reduce knee pain in people with osteoarthritis, especially those between the ages of 40 and 70 years old.
4. Vitamin K
Results of a clinical study suggest that vitamin K2 may help prevent osteoporosis in rheumatoid arthritis patients. Vitamin K is necessary to help proteins in bone bind to calcium, an important mineral for healthy bones. Vitamin K is also important for maintaining thick, healthy cartilage in joints. This is because vitamin K helps regulate levels of calcium in all tissue cells, not only bone. Multiple studies have shown that patients with lower levels of vitamin K are more likely to have osteoarthritis in the knees. The disease is also more likely to progress in patients with very low levels of vitamin K.
5. Vitamin B3
Vitamin B3 may alleviate symptoms of arthritis. One initial study concluded that vitamin B3 helped minimise some symptoms of osteoarthritis, thereby improving the mobility of joints and also reducing the need for NSAIDs. Another study performed on lab rats found that an injection comprising on vitamin B3 minimised inflammation associated with arthritis.
6. Green Tea Extract
Green tea extract helps prevent development of Arthritis. A protein known as cytokine interleukin-1 beta or IL-1B plays a major role in degradation of cartilage of bone joints in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The EGCG present in green tea blocks the IL-1B’s capability to produce proteins and enzymes that penetrate the joints and damage the cartilage between the bone joints. Apart from this, EGCG also blocks the activity of three other molecules – the IL-6, Cox-2 and prostaglandin E2 that cause inflammation of joints. This is how green tea works as good as anti-inflammatory drugs.
7. Omega-3 Fatty Acids
Osteoporosis and arthritis are two common disorders that affect your skeletal system. Studies indicate that omega-3s can improve bone strength by boosting the amount of calcium in your bones, which should lead to a reduced risk of osteoporosis. Omega-3s may also treat arthritis. Patients taking omega-3 supplements have reported reduced joint pain and increased grip strength.
8. Collagen
Collagen helps reduce joint pains and degeneration. With its gel-like, smooth structure that covers and holds our bones together, collagen allows us to glide and move without pain. It helps your joints move more easily, reduces pain often associated with aging and even reduces the risk of joint deterioration. It’s no surprise then that a recent study even found that collagen is an effective treatment for treating osteoarthritis and other joint pain and disorders.
Collagen could also prevent bone loss. Studies have shown that taking collagen supplements may have certain effects in the body that help inhibit the bone breakdown that leads to osteoporosis.
9. Vitamin A
Vitamin A is also a crucial component of bone growth as well. Hitting just the right balance of vitamin A is essential, however, as both an excess and deficiency in this important vitamin have been linked to compromised bone health. One study conducted at the Institute of Gerontology and Geriatrics at the University of Perugia in Italy even found that plasma retinol levels were significantly lower in elderly women with osteoporosis compared to a control group. The results also showed that low levels of retinol were associated with reduced bone mineral density in the femur.
10. L-lysine
L-lysine is the form of lysine your body can utilize. It may improve calcium absorption and retention. A study in 30 women, 15 healthy and 15 with osteoporosis, found that supplementing with calcium and lysine reduced the loss of calcium in the urine. The women given 3 grams of calcium alone had a progressive increase in calcium in their urine. However, the women who also received 400 mg of lysine lost less calcium through their urine. Lysine appears to protect your bones and may also play a part in controlling whereto calcium is transported in your body.
Major companies operating in bone and joint ingredient market are exploring new opportunities such as blending well-established ingredients with other innovative and safe ingredients for promoting joint and bone health. Kangcare Bioindustry is one the these companies on the cutting edge. Besides supplying single ingredients, Kangcare is now developing formulations by combing different ingredients with promoted effects.
Post to: Delicious Digg reddit Facebook StumbleUpon
Contact us
Advertise With Us
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Newsletter sign up
Online magazine sign up
Top of page
Ingredients Insight is a product of Global Trade Media, a trading division of Progressive Trade Media Limited. © 2019, All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
We have updated our privacy policy. In the latest update it explains what cookies are and how we use them on our site. To learn more about cookies and their benefits, please view our privacy policy. Please be aware that parts of this site will not function correctly if you disable cookies. By continuing to use this site, you consent to our use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy unless you have disabled them.