autistic – VAXOPEDIA
Skip to content
an A to Z guide to Vaccines
Search
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
VAXOPEDIA
Menu
Home
A-Z Index
Blog
Categories
Vaxopedia
History of Vaccines
Immunization News
Immunization Schedules
Vaccine Advocates
Vaccine Education
Vaccine Ingredients
Vaccine Misinformation
Vaccine Preventable Diseases
Vaccine Safety
Vaccine Side Effects
Vaccines
About
Contact
Tag: autistic
If It’s Vaccines, Then Why Are There Autistic Kids Who Are Unvaccinated?
Although we know that vaccines aren’t associated with autism, anti-vaccine folks can’t let go of the idea.
Paul Thomas misses the one thing his data is telling him…
So how do they explain all of the autistic kids who are unvaccinated?
If It’s Vaccines, Then Why Are There Autistic Kids Who Are Unvaccinated?
Of course, anti-vaccine folks have a ready answer – it’s vaccines, but it’s not just vaccines.
I guess that’s how they explain the fact that there are so many autistic adults too! Well, actually no. Most anti-vaccine folks are surprised when you point out that there are so many autistic adults, as it doesn’t fit in with their idea that autism is new and caused by kids getting more vaccines than they used to.
Well, I guess mostly caused by giving so many more vaccines than we used to – there are also the autistic kids who were never vaccinated.
How do they explain those kids having autism?
Like their competing theories about how vaccines are associated with autism (it’s the MMR vaccine, no it’s thimerosal, no it’s glyphosate contaminating vaccines, etc.), they have a lot of ideas about how everything else causes autism. From fluoride and chlorine to acetaminophen and aluminum-lined containers, plus mercury, arsenic, aspartame, MSG, and the vaccines your child’s great-grandmother received – they think that just about anything and everything can cause autism. Or at least anything that they think they can sell you a treatment for, such as their supplements, special diet plans, or other “cures.”
Makes you wonder why they still focus on vaccines…
But they do, even as more studies have shown that vaccines are not associated with autism. And since vaccines don’t cause autism, it shouldn’t be surprising that there are unvaccinated children with autism. The only reason there aren’t more is that most parents vaccinate their children, so, of course, most autistic children are going to be vaccinated.
Another reason is that some parents stop vaccinating their kids once they have an autistic child. But since vaccines aren’t associated with autism, which is highly genetic and inheritable, younger unvaccinated siblings born after older siblings were diagnosed often still develop autism.
Now if vaccines didn’t cause autism in these unvaccinated kids, why would anyone still think that they caused autism in their older siblings?
“I must admit that it was through conversations with a coworker that I began to suspect something might be wrong with my youngest son. It concerned me so much that I started looking for information online. I read some of the stories and they sounded similar to what I was experiencing with my son – with the symptoms, the regression and the age at which it all started to become apparent.”
Lara’s Story: Growing Up Anti-Vaccine
Unlike some other stories you might read online, Lara’s story is about her unvaccinated autistic child.
She isn’t alone. You only have to look at personal stories and posts in parenting forums to see that there are many cases of autism among unvaccinated and partially vaccinated children:
“It is highly likely my 4-year-old son is autistic. And he is completely 100 percent vaccine-free. And I am just at a total loss.”
“I have unvaxxed kids on the spectrum, and my friend does as well.”
“A good friend’s son is autistic. He is totally non-vaxxed.”
“I seriously delayed vaccinating my son, so had very few vaxxes at the time he was diagnosed”
“We have autism in our unvaxxed children”
“I know two little boys who are both autistic, completely non-vaxxed”
“I have two unvaccinated children who are on the autism spectrum and have never vaccinated any of my children.”
“I am not sure what caused my son’s autism, but autistic he is. He is completely unvaxxed as we stopped vaxxing 10 years ago.”
“I have a 10 year old daughter with autism spectrum disorder… My daughter has never had a vaccine, a decision I made shortly after she was born, after much research.”
Unfortunately, while realizing that unvaccinated children can develop autism does help some parents move away from anti-vaccine myths and conspiracy theories, others get pushed deeper into the idea that it is just about toxins. It is not uncommon for some of these parents to blame vaccines they got while pregnant or even before they became pregnant, Rhogam shots, or mercury fillings in their teeth, etc.
Fortunately, most don’t though.
Take Juniper Russo, for example.
She “was afraid of autism, of chemicals, of pharmaceutical companies, of pills, of needles” when she had her baby. She just knew that vaccines caused autism when she first visited her pediatrician after her baby was born and knew all of the anti-vaccine talking points. She also later began to realize that her completely unvaccinated daughter had significant developmental delays. Instead of continuing to believe that vaccines cause autism, Ms. Russo understood that she “could no longer deny three things: she was developmentally different, she needed to be vaccinated, and vaccines had nothing to do with her differences.”
And she understands that her autistic child isn’t damaged, as hard as folks in the anti-vaccine movement still try to push the idea that she is.
More on Autistic Kids Who Are Unvaccinated
The quest for autism’s causes, and what it reveals about all of us
Busting Anti-Vaccine Myths While Supporting Autistic People
VAXOPEDIA – Andrew Wakefield Is Not A Fraud?
VAXOPEDIA – Expert Statements on Vaccines and Autism
VAXOPEDIA – Explaining the Correlation of Autism After Vaccines
VAXOPEDIA – Vaccines and Autism Redux
VAXOPEDIA – How the Anti-Vaccine Movement Hurts Autistic Families
Lara’s Story: Growing Up Anti-Vaccine
How My Daughter Taught Me that Vaccines Do Not Cause Autism
Study – Vaccination Patterns in Children After Autism Spectrum Disorder Diagnosis and in Their Younger Siblings
Study – No effect of MMR withdrawal on the incidence of autism: a total population study
Study – Immunization uptake in younger siblings of children with autism spectrum disorder
Vaccines and Autism: A Tale of Shifting Hypotheses
Researchers have ditched the autism-vaccine hypothesis. Here’s what they think actually causes it.
How much do autism parents really buy into the vaccine causation idea? Not so much.
Internet survey shows high autism rate in unvaccinated children
A vaccinated vs unvaccinated study
Immunization uptake in younger siblings of children with autism spectrum disorder
Juniper Russo was once a doubter but now a believer
MMR vaccine and autism – once again, there is no association
Stop attacking us and start listening to us: Autistic adults
It is About Respect
The Problems with Functioning Labels
What is Wrong With Functioning Labels?
How to Talk to an Autistic Adult
15 Things You Should Never Say To An Autistic
Knowing Why: Adult-Diagnosed Autistic People on Life and Autism
Autistic Parenting – Cherising Autistic People and Culture
“So, do you work?”
Finding Work
Getting Hired
Why to never tell someone ‘You will never work’
Tips & Considerations for Autistic Job Seekers and Employers by Samantha Craft
Calm the fuck down, there is no autism epidemic
I’m a “highly functional” Autistic. It takes a lot of work.
Autistic adults do not look like autistic children.
I Have Autism And Hope To One Day Own A Bed And Breakfast
Signs of Autism in Adults That May Have Been Missed as Children
About That “Coming Avalanche” of Autistic Adults…
Stop Isolating Autistic Adults and Calling It “Community-Based Housing”
Don’t let your children grow up in a world where society devalues their lives.
Autism and Suicidality: Conversations Between Researchers and Autistic People
NeuroTribes: The Legacy of Autism and the Future of Neurodiversity
Robert Kennedy, why can’t you actually apologize? My kid’s brain is not gone.
The Autism Epidemic Meme is Behind Almost All Autism Woo: A Call for Additional Research
A Neurodiversity FAQ
Autism Myths
Who is your autism advocate?
College students on the autism spectrum: Prevalence and associated problems
Where Are All The Older Autistic People? Scotland, For Example
Where are all the old people with autism? Most of them are dead. Can we stop denying their existence and start trying to make a difference?
Autistic man dies
Study: Adults with Autism…
Don’t Write Me Off
“We want respect”: adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities address respect in research.
Rethinking Employment Opportunities for Adults with Autism
Mayo Clinic to study adult prevalence and outcomes
If you are using California data to claim an autism epidemic, you’re doing it wrong. Or:The great anti-epidemic of intellectual disability in California.
The autism ‘epidemic’ no more
Better dead than autistic
Person First: An Evolution in Thinking
The Genetics of Autism
The Illusory Link Between Vaccinations and Autism
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Vincent Iannelli, MD
March 15, 2019 March 15, 2019
Andrew Wakefield
autism
autistic
chemicals
correlation
glyphosate
Juniper Russo
MMR
Paul Thomas
pregnant
Rhogam shots
thimerosal
toxins
unvaccinated
Who Is Mark Green?
Have you heard of Mark Green?
For those of us who grew up watching ER, Mark Green is a household name.
But that’s not the Mark Green I’m talking about…
Who Is Mark Green?
Mark Green is a soon-to-be congressman, recently elected for Tennessee’s Seventh Congressional District.
A Republican, he is also a doctor. Specifically, he became a Army special operations flight surgeon after completing a residency in emergency medicine.
Of note, Dr. Green has also made horrible statements about transgender people, saying that they have a disease and that they are an evil that must be crushed.
Although his previous statements led him to withdraw as Trump’s pick for Army Secretary, that didn’t keep folks in Tennessee from sending him to Congress.
And now we have his comments about vaccines and autism…
At a recent town hall meeting in Tennessee, Green said:
“Let me say this about autism,” Green said. “I have committed to people in my community, up in Montgomery County, to stand on the CDC’s desk and get the real data on vaccines. Because there is some concern that the rise in autism is the result of the preservatives that are in our vaccines.
“As a physician, I can make that argument and I can look at it academically and make the argument against the CDC, if they really want to engage me on it,” Green said.
Has he apologized?
Mark Green’s statements will hurt autistic families.
Despite some saying that he has walked back those claims, his main response has been that his comments had been “misconstrued” and that “I’ve vaccinated my kids and let others know they need to vaccinate theirs too.”
Nothing about vaccines and autism.
“There appears to be some evidence that as vaccine numbers increase, rates of autism increase,” Green said. “We need better research, and we need it fast. We also need complete transparency of any data. Vaccines are essential to good population health. But that does not mean we should not look closely at the correlation for any causation.”
Except for when he doubled down on his statements trying to associate vaccines with autism…
So just what did Rep Mark Green mean to say about vaccines and autism?
Statements which seemed to cause the Tennessee chapter of the AAP and the Tennessee Department of Health to issue statements of their own.
“Vaccines do not cause autism.”
Tennessee Department of Health Statement on Immunizations
So, is he going to really apologize for his comments, and perhaps learn a bit more about vaccines, vaccine-preventable disease, and autism?
More on Mark Green
VAXOPEDIA – Does Congress Really Agree About Vaccines?
VAXOPEDIA – What Ronald Reagan Can Teach Us About Vaccine Policy
VAXOPEDIA – Vaccines and the Latest Autism Prevalence Report
VAXOPEDIA – Explaining the Correlation of Autism After Vaccines
VAXOPEDIA – Has the CDC Been Hiding and Destroying Evidence About Vaccine Safety?
VAXOPEDIA – Expert Statements on Vaccines and Autism
VAXOPEDIA – Dan Burton on Vaccines and Autism
Who is Mark Green Representing in Tennessee, Exactly? Not His Autistic Constituents, That’s For Sure
Tennessee U.S. Rep.-elect Mark Green alleges vaccines may cause autism, questions CDC data
Tennessee Department of Health Statement on Immunizations
‘Vaccines save lives.’ Sen. Lamar Alexander states scientific facts after Mark Green comment
Mark Green uses Bible verse to call transgender people “evil”
Mark Green, the Heartless Man Who Would Be Army Chief
Sen. John McCain: Army secretary nominee’s past comments ‘very concerning’
Rep.-Elect Mark Green: A new antivaccine crank goes to Congress
New GOP Congressman Mark Green Rejects Science, Claims Vaccines May Cause Autism
GOP Senator Opposes Medicaid Expansion Because It Prevents People From Finding God
In which Rep. Bill Posey hits most of the autism-vaccine bingo points at the Congressional autism hearing
Antivaccine legislators are at it again
Vaccines Aren’t Partisan
How Congress Brought the Measles Back
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Vincent Iannelli, MD
December 17, 2018 December 19, 2018
autism
autism epidemic
autism hearings
autism studies
autism-vaccine hoax
autistic
Bill Posey
causation
CDC
correlation
Mark Green
Peter Hotez
politics
preservatives
This Is the Modern Anti-Vaccine Movement
We often like to think that we know how anti-vaccine folks think.
They are just scared and trying to do the right thing for their kids, right? Just like all of the rest of us?
Maybe some of them…
This Is the Modern Anti-Vaccine Movement
Of course, you can’t group all anti-vaccine folks together, as many vaccine-hesitant or on-the-fence parents are truly just scared about the things they see and read about vaccines.
But they should know what they are getting into when they follow their favorite anti-vaccine hero, celebrity or Facebook group.
The modern anti-vaccine movement goes far deeper than worries about possible vaccine side effects.
Don’t believe me?
Hillary Simpson may not share the anti-Semitic views of one of her admins, but many of her followers do…
It is hopefully clear to everyone by now that the modern anti-vaccine movement:
exploits tragedies
exploits parents who’s children have died of vaccine-preventable diseases
exploits parents who’s children have conditions that have nothing to do with vaccines
makes dangerous recommendations, from skipping RhoGAM and vitamin K to making homemade baby formula
invokes the Holocaust as often as possible
hurts autistic people
pushes alternative treatments, including advising people to avoid getting conventional treatment for cancer!
Don’t believe me?
Why should this family have to come out and give an explanation for how their child died?
After a 4-month-old died of bacterial meningitis, anti-vaccine folks pushed the idea that it was a vaccine injury instead of an infection.
An anti-vaccine parenting group helped spread misinformation about this baby’s death.
And they push their views that everything is a vaccine injury on everyone, even though most folks understand that vaccines are not associated with SIDS, shaken baby syndrome, autism, and most other things.
To be clear, there is no connection between vaccines and acute flaccid myelitis, no matter how hard anti-vaccine folks are trying to make one.
Award winning?
Please.
Sure, everyone and everything in anti-vaccine world is the very best, except if they are, then why are they trying so hard to convince you of that… So maybe you will agree with some of their more far-out claims, suggestions, and conspiracy theories?
Learn the risks of following bad advice.
After all, it’s one thing to consider skipping or delaying your child’s vaccines when you think you can get away with hiding in the herd or to buy some essential oils and supplements, but are you really going to say no to chemotherapy if your child has cancer? Brandy Vaughan seems to think you should.
If there is a RISK, there must be a CHOICE.
Do you think it is okay to put infants who are too young to be vaccinated at risk for measles and other vaccine-preventable diseases because you don’t like the choices you have been given between getting your kids vaccinated and protected or keeping them out of school?
What about the parents of the kid who is being treated for cancer who gets exposed to chicken pox because someone else made the choice to not vaccinate their kid? Do you think that’s fair?
The modern anti-vaccine movement is only about choice when it is about their choices and doesn’t seem to care about the risks their unvaccinated kids pose to others.
Believe it or not, the modern anti-vaccine movement also equates getting vaccinated with rape…
Don’t believe me?
Meryl Dorey has also claimed that vaccination is rape.
Do you agree?
What else do most folks in the modern anti-vaccine movement believe?
They believe that:
vaccines don’t work, but are somehow still able to cause shedding for long periods of time
vaccines are poison and full of toxins
vaccines have no benefits and always cause injury
diseases like measles and chicken pox are good for you
And of course, they believe that vaccine advocates are behind a big conspiracy, are lying to you, and are trying to force everyone to get vaccinated.
Is that what you believe?
Some nurses and doctors are refusing to get a flu shot and have to wear masks at work.
Even though these and every other anti-vaccine point you have heard has already been refuted a thousand times already.
The RhoGAM shot helps prevent hemolytic disease of the newborn. It is not a vaccine and is not part of a Big Pharma profit ploy…
Do you believe in chemtrails or that Bill Gates has a plan to depopulate the world using vaccines?
“As a result, multiple breakouts of measles have occurred throughout different parts of the Western world, infecting dozens of patients and even causing deaths.”
Hussain et al on The Anti-vaccination Movement: A Regression in Modern Medicine
If you do, understand that you have been fooled by the propaganda of the modern anti-vaccine movement. If you don’t, understand that many of the folks in your anti-vaccine groups probably do.
More on the Modern Anti-Vaccine Movement
The Anti-vaccination Movement: A Regression in Modern Medicine
The Greater Good: Pure, unadulterated anti-vaccine propaganda masquerading as a “balanced” documentary
How the Anti-Vaccine Movement Takes Advantage of Dead Children and Their Parents
Samoa vaccine story – tragedy abused by anti-vaccine websites
The Drs. Wolfson – Incomprehensibly Cruel 2 – Light for Riley responds
Citing imprimatur of University of Wollongong, antivaxer Judy Wilyman trolls Light for Riley
Texas Children’s Hospital nurse investigated for Facebook posting as Houston toddler tests positive for measles
Vaccination is rape – another disgusting and ridiculous anti-vaccine trope
Doctor equates vaccines with rape, perfects combo of malignity and scientific ignorance
The annals of “I’m not anti-vaccine,” part 11: Vaccination portrayed as rape
Vaccination protesters at Democratic convention compare California to Nazi Germany
Doc Says Anti-Vaxxers Are Treated Like Jews in Nazi Germany
Dr. Bob Sears of Weekly Cover Fame Compares Anti-Vaxxers to Jews Under Nazis
California Doctor Invokes Holocaust Analogy, Compares Non-Vaccinating Parents To Persecuted Jews
Can antivaccinationists knock it off with the autism Holocaust analogies already? (RFK, Jr. edition)
7 Ways Anti-Vaxxers Are Worse than You Ever Could Have Imagined
The annals of “I’m not antivaccine,” part 24: Antivaxers threaten to dox Boston Herald employees over the newspaper’s use of imagery much less offensive than what antivaxers use on a daily basis
The annals of “I’m not antivaccine,” part 21: Oh, wait, maybe I am antivaccine after all
The annals of “I’m not antivaccine,” part 18: Dr. Bob goes full Godwin over SB 277
The annals of “I’m not antivaccine,” part 17: More Nazis versus freedom!
The annals of “I’m not antivaccine,” part 15: California SB 277, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., and the vaccine “holocaust”
The annals of “I’m not anti-vaccine,” part 5 ( argumentum ad Nazium edition, 2011)
Dr. Bob Sears serves his typical anti-vaccine effluvium, seasoned with self-pity and accompanied by a side of anti-Semitism
The autism “Holocaust”? Why antivaccine advocates are not autism advocates
The violent rhetoric of the antivaccine movement: “Vaccine Holocaust” and potential impending attacks on journalists
Anti vaccine cult uses Hitler’s Big Lie – laughable strategy
Can antivaccinationists knock it off with the autism Holocaust analogies already?
School vaccine mandates are against the Nuremberg Code
Anti-Semitic vaccine deniers – continued attacks on Prof. Reiss
Anti Semitic hate speech of the antivaccine cult
So I friended some anti-vaccine people on Facebook…
Keep it up, anti-vaccine nuts, you’re your own worst enemy
Scientific skepticism about vaccine safety: you’re doing it wrong
Evaluating Vaccines Requires Critical Thinking
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Vincent Iannelli, MD
November 4, 2018 November 4, 2018
#crazymothers
anti-vaccine heroes
anti-vaccine movement
anti-vaccine talking points
autistic
big pharma
Bob Sears
cherry picking
conspiracy theories
deaths from vaccine-preventable diseases
forced vaccination
graphs
Hillary Simpson
history of the anti-vaccine movement
holocaust
Jim Meehan
Leicester
measles outbreaks
Meryl Dorey
modern anti-vaccine movement
pro-choice vaccines
rape
regret
Sarah Pope
shedding
shedding season
Sherri Tenpenny
vaccine choice
Vaccine Injuries vs Coincidences
Believe it or not, some folks don’t think that coincidences are real.
Not believing in coincidences is a well known trope of the anti-vaccine movement.
Is it a coincidence that these folks are the ones who are the most likely to believe that vaccines cause a lot of injuries and vaccine induced diseases?
Vaccine Injuries vs Coincidences
Thinking about vaccine side effects and coincidences is not new.
“When I undertook the study with the current vaccine strain on my own two triple-negative children and their three playmates, also triple- negatives, I thought: “I am going to do this very carefully now,” and, like Dr. Gear, I set up certain time schedules. I said: “I am going to start to give the vaccine now.” Every time I said “I am going to start to give it” and did not give it, two to three or four days later they came down with either pharyngitis, vomiting and abdominal pain, or a little fever.
I waited for approximately six weeks for those children to stop having some sort of febrile episode. I finally gave up. It so happened that after they got the vaccine they did not have any such episode.”
Albert Sabin on Recent Studies And Field Tests With A Live Attenuated Poliovirus Vaccine
When Albert Sabin was first researching his oral polio vaccine, he understood the problem. How could he really know if any signs or symptoms that occurred after he gave someone his vaccine were really caused by the vaccine, or just a coincidence?
“However, a report later to be given by Dr. Smorodintsev will deal with approximately 7,500 children who had received the vaccine and were carefully followed, as compared with another group, in similar number, who had not, for various types of illnesses which were occurring during the period.”
Albert Sabin on Recent Studies And Field Tests With A Live Attenuated Poliovirus Vaccine
The solution? They studied kids who had not gotten his vaccine.
But you don’t need an unvaccinated group to uncover coincidences.
You can just look at the background rate of a symptom or condition, and compare the periods before and after you start using a vaccine.
For instance, consider this study from Australia about using the HPV vaccine in boys, in which they made some predictions of what would happen after introducing the HPV vaccine.
Assuming an 80% vaccination rate with three doses per person — which equates to about 480 000 boys vaccinated and a total of 1 440 000 doses administered nationally per year in the first 2 years of the program — about 2.4 episodes of Guillain-Barré syndrome would be expected to occur within 6 weeks of vaccination. In addition, about 3.9 seizures and 6.5 acute allergy presentations would be expected to occur within 1 day of vaccination, including 0.3 episodes of anaphylaxis.
Clothier et al. on Human papillomavirus vaccine in boys: background rates of potential adverse events.
Wait. Are they saying that the HPV vaccine is going to cause Guillain-Barré syndrome, seizures, allergic reactions, and anaplylaxis?
Of course not. When the study was done, the kids hadn’t gotten any vaccines yet!
That was the background rate of those conditions.
They happened before the vaccine was given, and you can expect them to continue to happen after these kids start getting vaccinated – at that same rate.
What if they start happening more often after kids get vaccinated?
Then it makes it less likely to be a coincidence and more likely that the vaccine is actually causing an increase in the background rate. And vaccine safety studies look for that, which is how we know that vaccines don’t cause SIDS, transverse myelitis, multiple sclerosis, and many other conditions.
Most of you will have heard the maxim “correlation does not imply causation.” Just because two variables have a statistical relationship with each other does not mean that one is responsible for the other. For instance, ice cream sales and forest fires are correlated because both occur more often in the summer heat. But there is no causation; you don’t light a patch of the Montana brush on fire when you buy a pint of Haagan-Dazs.
Nate Silver on The Signal and the Noise
Of course, when we are talking about coincidences, we are also talking about correlation and causation.
When correlation doesn’t equal causation, then it’s probably a coincidence. Or it’s at least caused by some other factor.
And coincidences happen all of the time.
Is It a Vaccine Injury or a Coincidence?
That something could be a coincidence is not typically want parents want to hear though, especially if their child has gotten sick.
What does it mean that something happens coincidentally?
“Most sudden cardiac deaths that remain unexplained after necropsy are probably caused by primary cardiac arrhythmias.”
Sudden death in children and adolescents
Often it just means that it is unexplained. And that it is chance alone that it occurred as the same time as something else.
“In the absence of a specific etiology for ASDs, and a tendency among parents of children with a disability to feel a strong sense of guilt, it is not surprising that parents attempt to form their own explanations for the disorder in order to cope with the diagnosis.”
Mercer et al on Parental perspectives on the causes of an autism spectrum disorder in their children
Again, when folks blame vaccines, it is often because they have nothing else to blame.
“In some fraction of the American population, however, the belief in a link remains. One reason is a coincidence of timing: children are routinely vaccinated just as parents begin to observe signs of autism. Most vaccines are administered during the first years of life, which is also a period of rapid developmental changes. Many developmental conditions, including autism, don’t become apparent until a child misses a milestone or loses an early skill, a change that in some cases can’t help but be coincident with a recent vaccination.”
Emily Willingham on The Autism-Vaccine Myth
Think that it is too big of a coincidence that some infants develop spasms shortly after their four month vaccines?
Dr. William James West first described these types of infantile spasms in the 1840s!
And the “Fifth Day Fits,” seizures that began when a newborn was five days old, was described in the 1970s, well before we began giving newborns the hepatitis B vaccine.
But SIDS was only discovered after we began vaccinating kids, right?
“But, with millions upon millions of doses given each year to infants in the first 6 months of life across industrialized countries and with sudden infant death syndrome being the most common cause of infant death among infants 1 month or older, the coincidence of SIDS following DTP vaccination just by chance will be relatively frequent. When the two events occur, with SIDS following vaccination, well-meaning and intelligent people will blame the vaccine. They seek order out of randomly occurring events.”
Jacobson et al. on A taxonomy of reasoning flaws in the anti-vaccine movement
Of course not.
Cases of SIDS have been described throughout recorded history and have been well studied to prove that they are not associated with vaccines.
“Some events after immunisation are clearly caused by the vaccine (for example, a sore arm at the injection site). However, others may happen by coincidence around the time of vaccination. It can therefore be difficult to separate those which are clearly caused by a vaccine and those that were going to happen anyway… Scientific method is then used to determine if these events are a coincidence or a result of the vaccine.
Vaccine side effects and adverse reactions
It is easy to blame a vaccine when something happens and a child was recently vaccinated. That is especially true now that anti-vaccine folks turn every story of a child’s death or disability into a vaccine injury story.
“Autism was known well before MMR vaccine became available.”
Chen et al. on Vaccine adverse events: causal or coincidental?
Blaming vaccines when it is clear that vaccines aren’t the cause doesn’t help anyone though. It scares other parents away from vaccinating and protecting their kids. And it doesn’t help parents who need support caring for a sick child or help coping with the loss of a child.
What to Know About Vaccine Injuries vs Coincidences
While all possible adverse events after getting a vaccine should be reported to VAERS and your pediatrician, remember that just because something happened after getting vaccinated, it doesn’t mean that it was caused by the vaccine.
More on Vaccine Injuries vs Coincidences
Coincidences: Remarkable or Random?
The Power of Coincidence
Coincidences
Vaccine side effects and adverse reactions
Vaccine adverse events: causal or coincidental?
Study – Parental perspectives on the causes of an autism spectrum disorder in their children.
Solar Eclipse and Coincidence
Study – A taxonomy of reasoning flaws in the anti-vaccine movement
Study – Anti-vaccine activists, Web 2.0, and the postmodern paradigm–an overview of tactics and tropes used online by the anti-vaccination movement.
Study – Mechanisms Underlying Adverse Reactions to Vaccines
Vaccine safety evaluation: Practical aspects in assessing benefits and risks
Why are there so many reports of autism following vaccination? A mathematical assessment
The baby died at homebirth but that was just a coincidence
Known Unknowns ‘The Signal and the Noise,’ by Nate Silver
Review: ‘The Book of Why’ Examines the Science of Cause and Effect
Coincidence, correlation and chance
Explainer: Correlation, causation, coincidence and more
How Coincidences Shape Views of Vaccines–and Shouldn’t
The Autism-Vaccine Myth
Study – Human papillomavirus vaccine in boys: background rates of potential adverse events.
Study – Use of population based background rates of disease to assess vaccine safety in childhood and mass immunisation in Denmark: nationwide population based cohort study
Study – Importance of background rates of disease in assessment of vaccine safety during mass immunisation with pandemic H1N1 influenza vaccines
Study – Consequence or coincidence? The occurrence, pathogenesis and significance of autoimmune manifestations after viral vaccines.
Study – Safety and perception: What are the greatest enemies of HPV vaccination programmes?
Alfie Evans’ parents needed help. The vultures came instead
Vaccines Don’t Cause Autism, But That’s Not The Point. Stop Being Ableist.
Truth and Consequences – The Anti-Vaccination Movement Exacts a Price
Coincidences, convergences and opportunities
When can correlation equal causation?
Spurious Correlations
Correlation does not imply causation
Statistics for Skeptics Part 2 – Correlation vs. Causation
Correlation does not imply causation . Except when it does.
Evidence in Medicine: Correlation and Causation
Clearing up confusion between correlation and causation
A lesson about correlation and causation
Correlation and Causation
Repeat after me: “Correlation does not imply causation”
The Top Five Most Annoying Statistical Fallacies
A Historical Perspective on SIDS Research
A Fresh Look at the History of SIDS
Was SIDS the cause of infant deaths even 150 years ago?
A moral obligation to vaccinate
AAP – Supporting the Grieving Child and Family
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Vincent Iannelli, MD
August 4, 2018
autism studies
autistic
bad advice
causation
cognitive bias
coincidence
correlation
infantile spasms
morals
reporting vaccine side effects
seizures
SIDS
sudden death
vaccine induced disease
vaccine injury stories
vaccine scare stories
VAERS
Andrew Wakefield Is Not A Fraud?
Most folks have a good idea of who Andrew Wakefield is and what he did.
Who’s to blame for low immunization rates and continuing outbreaks?
Still, some folks seem to be pathologically optimistic that he didn’t actually do anything wrong.
Andrew Wakefield Is Not A Fraud?
You remember Andrew Wakefield, right?
“To our community, Andrew Wakefield is Nelson Mandela and Jesus Christ rolled up into one.”
J. B. Handley
He is the guy who published the 1998 paper in Lancet in the UK that started folks thinking that the MMR vaccine is somehow associated with autism.
In 1998, a major medical journal based in the UK, The Lancet, published a report headed by Andrew Wakefield, who was at that time a gastroenterological surgeon and medical researcher. The report implied a causal link between the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine and the development of autism combined with IBD in children, which Wakefield described as a new syndrome he named “autistic entercolitis”.
Andrew Wakefield’s Harmful Myth of Vaccine-induced “Autistic Enterocolitis”
But he didn’t actually say that the MMR vaccine caused autism in that paper, did he?
No, he saved that for the press conference for the paper.
If not for the press conference, which in itself was unusual, and all of the media attention over the next few years, his small study, which was “essentially a collection of 12 clinical anecdotes,” would have gone nowhere.
But there was no “Wakefield Factor” on immunization rates in the UK, was there? Didn’t measles cases continue to go down in the 10 years after his Lancet paper was published?
MMR vaccination rates had dropped below 80% by 2003, when the first measles outbreaks in the UK began. They didn’t fully recover until 2012.
Despite the heroic efforts of some folks to manipulate the data, it is clear that MMR vaccination rates dropped and measles cases jumped in the years after Wakefield’s MMR scare.
But even if his paper scared people away from vaccinating and protecting their kids, he was never really found guilty of fraud, was he?
While the findings of the General Medical Council panel that took away Wakefield’s medical license never used the word ‘fraud,’ they described things that are fraudulent. The words dishonest and misleading come up a lot too.
How do you define fraud?
“The Office of Research Integrity in the United States defines fraud as fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism.13 Deer unearthed clear evidence of falsification. He found that not one of the 12 cases reported in the 1998 Lancet paper was free of misrepresentation or undisclosed alteration, and that in no single case could the medical records be fully reconciled with the descriptions, diagnoses, or histories published in the journal.
Who perpetrated this fraud? There is no doubt that it was Wakefield. Is it possible that he was wrong, but not dishonest: that he was so incompetent that he was unable to fairly describe the project, or to report even one of the 12 children’s cases accurately? No.”
Fiona Godlee on Wakefield’s article linking MMR vaccine and autism was fraudulent
Brian Deer wasn’t the only one calling Wakefield a fraud.
But those charges from the General Medical Council were later all overturned, weren’t they?
While charges against John Walker-Smith, a co-author of Wakefield’s study, were dropped on appeal, that doesn’t exonerate Wakefield in anyway. Remember, John Walker-Smith was actually against blaming the MMR vaccine and unlike Wakefield, he and another co-author actually published their own press release stating continued support of the use of the MMR vaccine.
But the other coauthors have stood by the results of the paper, haven’t they?
“We wish to make it clear that in this paper no causal link was established between MMR vaccine and autism as the data were insufficient. However, the possibility of such a link was raised and consequent events have had major implications for public health. In view of this, we consider now is the appropriate time that we should together formally retract the interpretation placed upon these findings in the paper, according to precedent.”
Retraction of an Interpretation
They stood by the idea that it is important that research be done so that gastrointestinal problems in autistic children can be recognized and treated. Almost all of them retracted Wakefield’s interpretation of the paper though.
Yeah, but other studies have proven Wakefield to be right though, haven’t they?
No, they haven’t. In fact, other labs could not even replicate Wakefield’s original study.
Why wasn’t Wakefield ever charged in a criminal court?
But Wakefield’s Lancet paper wasn’t retracted because it’s findings were wrong…
Yes it was!
“Following the judgment of the UK General Medical Council’s Fitness to Practise Panel on Jan 28, 2010, it has become clear that several elements of the 1998 paper by Wakefield et al are incorrect, contrary to the findings of an earlier investigation. In particular, the claims in the original paper that children were “consecutively referred” and that investigations were “approved” by the local ethics committee have been proven to be false. Therefore we fully retract this paper from the published record.”
Retraction—Ileal-lymphoid-nodular hyperplasia, non-specific colitis, and pervasive developmental disorder in children
Still think Andrew Wakefield isn’t a fraud?
Every time there is a measles outbreak, anti-vaccine folks pop up to defend Andrew Wakefield. The problem is that they get virtually everything about him wrong!
Their false narratives and myths attempt to rewrite history and make you forget that he doesn’t just scare parents away from vaccinating and protecting their kids, he hurts autistic kids and their families.
More on Andrew Wakefield Myths
How the case against the MMR vaccine was fixed
Wakefield’s article linking MMR vaccine and autism was fraudulent
Andrew Wakefield GMC Charge Sheet
Andrew Wakefield – the fraud investigation
BMJ series on the Wakefield fraud
Andrew Wakefield’s Harmful Myth of Vaccine-induced “Autistic Enterocolitis”
Is It True That Andrew Wakefield’s Research Never Claimed Vaccines Cause Autism?
The media’s MMR hoax
The MMR story that wasn’t
Andy Wakefield exonerated because John Walker-Smith won his appeal? Not so fast there, pardner…
Surprise, surprise! Andrew Wakefield was paid by lawyers to undermine the MMR vaccine
Antivaccine hero Andrew Wakefield: Scientific fraud?
The Lancet retracts Andrew Wakefield’s article
Andrew Wakefield’s many statements that MMR causes autism
Andrew Wakefield “Acted Unethically”
Andrew Wakefield: paid $316k to administer $80k in grants by the Strategic Autism Inititiative
Andrew Wakefield’s vaccine patent
Andrew Wakefield Tortures History
Andrew Wakefield discredited – a collection of his attacks on vaccines
The Wakefield birthday party blood draw story
20th anniversary of the Andrew Wakefield vaccine fraud – no celebrations
Andrew Wakefield: Recognized as the Great Science Fraud that he is
Andrew Wakefield, the MMR, and a “mother warrior’s” fabricated vaccine injury story
Andrew Wakefield – dishonest attempt at self-justification
May 24, 2010: Andrew Wakefield Struck off the UK Medical Register. He’s Still Harming Autistic People
Refuting one of the tropes that Andrew Wakefield was wronged
Andrew Wakefield: Don’t try to blame me for the results of what I said and did
Andrew Jeremy Wakefield, Litigious Bully
Studies ‘supporting’ Andrew Wakefield
On The Lancet’s Retraction of Wakefield’s 1998 Paper Alleging A Connection Between the MMR Vaccine and Autism
BREAKING: BMJ calls Andrew Wakefield a fraud
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Vincent Iannelli, MD
August 1, 2018 August 7, 2018
Andrew Wakefield
autism
autism shot
autism studies
autistic
BMJ
Chelsea Clinton
fraud
General Medical Council
JB Handley
John-Walker Smith
Lancet
MMR
propaganda
retracted
tweets
vaccine myths
Wakefield factor
Categories
Categories Select Category Blog History of Vaccines Immunization News Immunization Schedules Vaccine Advocates Vaccine Education Vaccine Ingredients Vaccine Misinformation Vaccine Preventable Diseases Vaccine Safety Vaccine Side Effects Vaccines Vaxopedia
Follow Vaxopedia via Email
Enter your email address to follow Vaxopedia and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Follow Vaxopedia
Vaxopedia RSS Feed
RSS - Posts
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
Recommended Sites
Aetiology
Epidemiological
Harpocrates Speaks
I Speak of Dreams
Just the Vax
Left Brain Right Brain
Logic of Science
Moms Who Vax
NDS for Vaccines
NeuroLogica
Nurses Who Vaccinate
Respectful Insolence
Shot of Prevention
Skeptical OB
Skeptical Raptor
The Poxes Blog
The Thinking Persons Guide to Autism
The Vaccine Blog
The Vaccine Mom
Vaxopedia Tags
advocacy autism benefits Bob Sears conspiracy theories deaths from vaccine-preventable diseases exemptions herd immunity History of Vaccines immunization schedule ingredients measles deaths measles outbreaks natural immunity propaganda quotes risks safety side effects toxins unvaccinated vaccine injury vaccine myths Vaccine Preventable Diseases VAERS
Shot of Prevention
Ethan Lindenberger Wants to Help Stop the Lies About Vaccines
Just The Vax
False Balance in the Media
Left Brain Right Brain
Acceptance
Respectful Insolence
In Singapore, the TCM Practitioners Board shows why quacks shouldn’t self-regulate
Ginger Taylor, MS dubiously invokes “religious freedom” to argue against vaccination
Epidemiological
Epi 101: Indirect Age Adjustment by Hand and in R
Skeptical Raptor
MMR vaccine is safe and effective according to powerful FDA statement
The Poxes Blog
Won’t Someone Think of the Antivaxxers?
I Speak of Dreams
Who is Mark Green Representing in Tennessee, Exactly? Not His Autistic Constituents, That's For Sure
A WordPress.com Website.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: