Drug-Food interactions series: Grapefruit and its juice – HILPHARMA
Skip to content
HILPHARMA
All about drug safety
HOME
BLOG
CONTACT US
JOIN US
Volunteer
Donate
Drug-Food interactions series: Grapefruit and its juice
Posted on February 21, 2019 February 28, 2019 by Seuna Linda
The next culprit on our drug-food interaction series is the grapefruit juice and the grape fruit itself. In itself it is a very healthy fruit, however, it doesn’t mix well with certain drugs.
Why?
Photo by Pixabay on Pexels.com
Grapefruit blocks enzymes that break down certain drugs leaving higher levels of medication in your blood and possibly increasing your risk for side effects.
Most common are drugs affected by grapefruit include:
Statins (drugs used to lower blood cholesterol levels) like atorvastatin (Avas, Atorfit)
Calcium channel blockers (a class of anti hypertensive drugs) like nifedipine (Adalat, Nifedipine Denk)
Some Antiarrythmic drugs (drugs used to treat abnormal heart rhythms) like amodiarone (Eurythmic)
Drugs for erectile dysfunction like sildenafil (Viagra)
Some anti-infective drugs like erythromycin and albendazole
The list above are just a few examples.
It’s vital to point out that even just a little amount grapefruit juice can drastically change the level of the drugs in the body with severe consequences. These effects vary from person to person and also on the amount of grapefruit taken.
Unlike other drug-food interactions where you could still eat the culprit food 2 hours after your medication, for grapefruit, its effect could last over 24hours. It is best to avoid grapefruit and its juice throughout your treatment plan.
How do I check for food-drugs interactions ?
Anytime you’re given a newly prescribed or over-the-counter medication, you’ll want to always read the drug warning labels.
Be sure to ask your doctor and/or pharmacist about which foods or other drugs you should avoid or be concerned about taking, based on your diet.
You may want to see if there is a different medication you could take, that would work better with your diet.
Posted in Medication Safety
Post navigation
Drug-Food interactions: Bananas
How to use your nasal spray
2 thoughts on “Drug-Food interactions series: Grapefruit and its juice”
Engwari says:
February 28, 2019 at 8:37 am
Thanks Hilpharma keep up with the good work
Reply
Seuna Linda says:
February 28, 2019 at 9:20 am
You are welcome dear Engwari
Reply
Leave a Reply to Engwari Cancel reply
Name *
Email *
Website
Comment
Search for:
FOLLOW US
Fb
Twitter
Instagram
Youtube
Contact
Cameroon
+237 672312661
contact@hilpharma.com
No to drug abuse campaign song
Gallery
BDMA awards 2018
Campaign tshirts French
Campaign tshirts English
EWP collabo
NO TO DRUGS
CONTACT US
Yaounde, Cameroun
+237 6723 126 61
contact@hilpharma.com
FOLLOW US
Fb
Twitter
Instagram
Youtube
2019 © HILPHARMA.COM | POWERED & DESIGN BY MOMO-CLOUD.COM