Fish Oil and Cholesterol – PharmaNerd
Skip to content
PharmaNerd
Insights on Pharmacy and Healthcare Issues
Home
Contact
March 23, 2019 Healthy Eating / Pharmaceutical
Fish Oil and Cholesterol
Posted by Hester Hommel
A diet including fatty fish or fish oil supplements is often recommended to help lower cholesterol and reduce the risk of heart disease. Fish oil supplements are sold over the counter, and prescription products are also available. The components in fish oil that are beneficial are omega-3 fatty acids, including eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA).
Prescription omega-3 fatty acid products are subject to higher standards of safety, purity and efficacy than are the over the counter supplements and have been approved for lowering triglyceride levels. OTC supplements may contain variable amounts of EPA and DHA and can also contain other contaminants.
EPA and DHA are effective at reducing triglycerides, but can increase LDL-cholesterol, the bad cholesterol, so some patients may need additional treatment that targets other components of cholesterol. Omega-3 fatty acids have other effects that make them beneficial for patients with heart disease. They can improve blood flow and decrease platelet aggregation, reduce the growth of plaques in the blood vessels, dilate blood vessels, and reduce blood pressure. More here
The American Heart Association recommends eating fatty fish twice a week, including salmon, mackerel, herring, tuna and sardines. This may not provide enough omega-3 fatty acids for patients with coronary artery disease, so a supplement may help. Ask your doctor before starting any supplements.
For more ways to lower cholesterol see https://health.clevelandclinic.org/from-fiber-to-fish-oil-natural-ways-to-lower-your-cholesterol/
Advertisements
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
cholesterolheart diseasemedicinenutritionpharmacy
Post navigation
Previous Post
New Treatment for Postpartum Depression
Next Post
A New Way to Combat High Drug Costs
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (Address never made public)
Name
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Follow PharmaNerd on WordPress.com
Search for:
Search
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018
Categories
Diabetes
Healthy Eating
Historical
Pharmaceutical
Public Health
Pulmonary
Hester Hommel
Pharmacist
Certified Diabetes Educator
Nerd with a Blog
Blog at WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: