7 Effective Ways to Lower Cholesterol without Drugs!
Subscribe
in a reader
Dietary Supplements
Antioxidants
Bio Supplements
Minerals
Vitamins
Supplements Controversy
Health Conditions
Allergy Problems
Cancer Types
Pain Problems
Respiratory Problems
Viral Infections
Stomach Problems
Immune System Health
Diseases
Eye Care
Teeth Health
Women's Health
Bacterial Infections
Intestinal Health
Plastic Surgery
Urology
Neurology
Medications
American Health Care
Men's Health
Healthy Nutrition
Healthy Diets
Nutritious Food
Probiotics
Metabolism
Body Metabolism
Metabolic Health
Healthy Exercises
Metabolic Diet
Cardiovascular Health
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Human Circulatory System
Cardiovascular Disease Prevention
Cholesterol Treatment
Skin Care
Body Skin Care
Facial Skin Care
Natural Skin Care
Skin Disease
Natural Remedies
Herbal Treatment
Natural Products
BiostocksPro
Expert Advice
Financial Securities
Alternative Energy Investments
Financial Planning
Funds Investment
Penny Stocks Investment
Stock Market Investment
Home » Cardiovascular Health » Cholesterol Treatment » Cholesterol Management
7 Effective Ways to Lower Cholesterol without Drugs!
If you have high cholesterol levels, you may have thought about taking cholesterol-reducing drugs. However, doing something naturally is always better than artificially inducing it. You can lower cholesterol without drugs by making a few diet and lifestyle changes. Here are 7 powerful tips on lowering cholesterol naturally.
1. Lose the extra weight. This is perhaps the most obvious way to lower cholesterol without drugs, since there is considerable stress on the body that comes from those extra pounds you may be carrying. It is difficult for the body to process excess fat, so losing weight is one of the essentials of lowering cholesterol naturally.
2. Reduce massively the high-cholesterol foods in your diet. You should avoid products that are high in saturated fats. These include red meat, whole-fat milk products, egg yolks, and chicken skins. High cholesterol levels are largely the result of a high intake of saturated fats, so limiting them in your diet will be a crucial step to lowering cholesterol naturally. You should also avoid hydrogenated oils and trans fats, which are huge contributors to high cholesterol levels. Watch out for high levels of these in some processed goods.
3. Eat the right fats. In the past many people mistakenly believed that all fats were bad. While saturated fats are certainly unhealthy, you should actually strive to get more monounsaturated fats. These can be found in products like avocado, almonds, walnuts, and olive oil. These fats will actually help lower cholesterol without drugs.
4. Get more fiber in your diet. Fiber is a well-known component of a healthy diet, and it helps with lowering cholesterol levels. Fiber helps absorb excess fat and makes the person feel physically better, in addition to its other endless benefits for your body. Foods that are high in fiber include vegetables, fruit, and legumes.
5. Exercise, exercise, exercise! Yes, you’ve heard it many times before, but it can never be repeated enough if you want to lower your cholesterol naturally. Because exercise increases your metabolism and helps you shed those extra pounds, you can rely on it to help you reduce cholesterol levels too. Find the type of exercise you enjoy and stick to it if you want to see results.
6. Stop stressing. You may not have thought about it before, but stress does contribute to high cholesterol levels. Stress makes blood vessels constrict, which only reinforces the negative effects of high cholesterol. Even if you were to just stop stressing out about small every day things, it could make a big difference.
7. Quit smoking. Not many people are aware of the fact that ingredients in cigarette smoke are highly oxidizing. When you smoke the cholesterol in your body gets oxidized, and so becomes even more dangerous to your body. So, if you quit smoking, you will stop exacerbating the already harmful effects of high cholesterol.
For more information, go to:
http://www.lower-cholesterol.org/
The information supplied in this article is not to be considered as medical advice and is for educational purposes only.
Related Articles:
7 Best Methods of Cholesterol Treatment
Difference between Saturated and Unsaturated Fats
5 Natural Ways to Lower Cholesterol
How to Lower LDL Cholesterol
Normal Cholesterol Reading: What Is It?
Cholesterol Management 13 Jul 2011
Click here to cancel reply.
CATEGORIES
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Human Circulatory System
Cardiovascular Disease Prevention
Cholesterol Treatment
Cholesterol Diets
Cholesterol Foods
Cholesterol Management
Cholesterol Medicines
Cholesterol Supplements
RECENT POSTS
Healthy Ways to Lower Cholesterol: A Major Concern When You Have Diabetes
Some Good and Tasty Foods that Help to Lower Your Cholesterol
7 Effective Ways to Lower Cholesterol without Drugs!
How to Raise Good Cholesterol – 7 Steps to a Longer Life
Drinks to Lower Cholesterol – the Surprising Addition to Your Diet to Lower Cholesterol
RECENT COMMENTS
Rob on Café Hey (Tampa)
Djon on Café Hey (Tampa)
Alex on Café Hey (Tampa)
Jake on Café Hey (Tampa)
Robyuan on Café Hey (Tampa)
© Copyright 2019, Nutralegacy.com
Home Articles History Disclaimer	Mission Statement Terms of Use Site Map Forum Contact Us